                                                                         1191TN 


Print Request:   Selected Document(s): 1-182 
 
Time of Request: February 02, 2005  05:13 AM EST 
Number of Lines: 10637 
Job Number:      1861:29839462 
Client ID/Project Name:  
 
Research Information: 
 Major World Newspapers 
(NAME and (disqualif! or parole! or embezzl! or larcen! or fraud! or scandal! 
or corrupt! or illegal or indict! or bankrupt! or liquidation or disqualif! or 
guilt! or court case or inside! deal! or abus! or prosecut! or launder! or 
sexual or allegati! or miscond! or plural(drugs) or manipul! or inside! info! 
or breach! or convic! or felon! or fugit! or offen! or disgra! or illicit or 
nefario! or unlaw! or misdem! or depra! or offen*e or theft or rape or murde! 
or narcot! or deception or counterf! or violat! or brib! or extort! or 
apprehend! or arrest! or jail! or impris! or incarcer! or detentio! or detain! 
or incrim! or litigat! or contrab! or mafia or prohi!)) and date geq 
(2005-02-02) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Send to:  LNE PROF, DEUTSCHE BANK 
          DEUTSCHE BANK AG 
          TAUNUSANLAGE 12 
          FRANKFURT 60325 
          FRANKFURT AM MAIN, DEU D-60325 
 
 

                               1 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: REMEDIA PARENTS STILL SEEKING FINANCIAL REMEDIES

BYLINE: Netty C. Gross

BODY:

   A spokeswoman for embattled baby-food maker Heinz-Remedia says the company is
determined to stay in business and settle lawsuits connected to its defective
soy baby formula, which caused the death of two babies and serious - in some
cases permanent - injury to at least 15 others.

   The baby formula, which also caused developmental delays in an
as-yet-undetermined number of children, was ultimately found to be deficient in
the essential vitamin B1 (niacin). "We are in negotiations and very anxious to
help the families and put this chapter behind us," the spokeswoman for the
company, whose majority shareholder is American food giant Heinz, told The
Jerusalem Report.

   On January 17, the company faced two separate legal challenges. The Justice
Ministry announced it was likely to appeal a January 13 decision by a Tel Aviv
District Court that approved a 7.25-million-shekel ($ 1.7 million) settlement
for emotional distress between Heinz-Remedia and parents who bought the
defective non-dairy formula but whose children did not become ill. A ministry
spokeswoman told The Report that Attorney General Meni Mazuz was opposed to the
settlement because of many "unanswered questions" and because of the "chance
that the public interest hadn't been properly served" by class-action lawyers
pressing for quick settlement.

   In a separate lawsuit filed against Heinz-Remedia by Ofer and Liran, parents
of Inbar, the most profoundly injured baby and the only one still in the
hospital, Jerusalem District court judge Yitzhak Inbar denied the couple's
motion (meant to ensure that the company retains enough assets to pay a
settlement) to block the upcoming sale of Heinz-Remedia to the Israeli firm
Shemen Industries. But the judge agreed to reconsider the motion in 21 days,
pending the outcome of court-recommended arbitration on a cash settlement.

   Ofer, who has asked to withhold his last name to protect his daughter's
privacy, told The Report that Remedia's last offer to the couple was for 9
million shekels ($ 2 million) - a million shekels less than the settlement
secured by the parents of baby Noa Heibi, who also became handicapped from
drinking the Remedia formula but who, unlike Inbar, can eat and breathe on her
own.

   Ofer says he would now settle for 15.5 million shekels ($ 3.5 million),
though he doubts the sum will be sufficient in the long term. He says
round-the-clock nursing for Inbar will cost 50,000 shekels a month; therapies,
12,000; equipment and maintenance, another 15,000 - sums that Heinz-Remedia
law-yers have contested as too high. "To Remedia, it hurts in the wallet. To us,
in the heart," counters Ofer (see "How Much for Broken Lives?" December 13,
2004).

   As The Report went to press, police announced their suspicion that Moshe
Miller, president of Remedia, paid employees to obstruct the Israeli
investigation of the role played by his company in the removal of niacin from
the baby formula. Police say Miller has refused to provide internal company
documents that would clarify this.

   Netty C. Gross

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               2 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2684 words

HEADLINE: YOUNG AND RESTLESS

BYLINE: Netty C. Gross

BODY:

   From babies to teens, the children of settlers and other nationalists are
taking center stage in the struggle to stop disengagement. Are they free agents
or pawns in an adults' battle?

   Netty C. Gross

   On a cold January afternoon, former Sephardi chief rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu,
dressed in black ceremonial turban and robe, walks impassively through a crowd
of 15,000 people gathered outside the Knesset. The occasion is a prayer rally to
beseech Heaven to cancel the government's disengagement plan from the Gaza Strip
's Katif bloc and northern West Bank. The average age of the protesters can be
summed up as "young."

   The rally is today's leading event at an ongoing sit-in protesting the plan
on the sidewalks of Kaplan Road, which runs past the Knesset and government
office buildings. There are rows of large white plastic tents where religious
lectures are given, mobile generators and water tanks, portable bathrooms,
plastic chairs, banners, trays of free food, posters and petitions to sign.

   The demonstrators are almost all Orthodox, most ranging from early teens to
early twenties - the standard age for the shock troops of protest. They stream
in by the thousands during and after school hours, from throughout Israel and
the territories: boisterous Sephardi girls in long skirts from Ashkelon;
guitar-strumming boys in knitted skullcaps from Jerusalem wearing square
stickers proclaiming, "A Jew does not evict another Jew from his home"; yeshivah
students in scruffy ski jackets toting Talmuds; settler boys with flowing
sidelocks and rainbow-colored over-sized knitted yarmulkes. Mixing in are young
Orthodox couples with toddlers and babies in snowsuits, their strollers
plastered with Katif bloc stickers.

   Some high schoolers, with the hyperbolic passion of their age, speak of the
disengagement plan as a catastrophe on par with the expulsion of the Jews from
Spain. They've even been exposed to the use of Holocaust imagery to depict their
fate. Many appear to have been on educational trips to death camps in Poland -
an increasingly common feature of Israeli high school education - and have come
convinced that battling for the Whole Land of Israel is the truest response to
Jewish victimhood, and that the fight is something only the young have the
stomach to undertake.

   "Fighting the disengagement is a very important battle because God gave us
this land," says Shlomit Stern, 19, born and raised on the Orthodox Kibbutz Be
'erot Yitzhak, in central Israel to, she points out, a Holocaust survivor
family. She chose to perform her post-high school National Service in Netzarim,
the most isolated and beleaguered of the Gaza settlements, despite her parents'
worries. "God is with us," she declares, "but only young people will have the
strength to see the battle through."

   There's also bewilderment at Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. "How can he order
us to abandon a place for which our soldiers have died?" asks Navit Yamin, a
slender 16-year-old from Ashkelon with a long black ponytail, who arrived with
girlfriends during school hours. Oshrit, also from Ashkelon, is confident that
even if the Jews of the Gaza Strip are forced to leave, "the kids will go back"
and resettle those communities. Their friend Liron predicts matter of factly
that "there's going to be a civil war."

   The girls came by rented bus; asked who chartered it, one replies, "Our
school," and another quickly denies that, trading glances. The exchange at least
hints at the question of whether state religious schools are allowing truancy or
even pushing their students toward political protest. One of the girls mentions
that there is in fact a rotation of communities sending their schoolchildren to
bolster the demonstration each day.

   Rina Evanchik, a lawyer from the West Bank settlement of Nokdim, is here with
four of her five children, aged 3-14, and her mother, who took her as a child to
illegal settlement attempts at Sebastia and protests against withdrawal at Yamit
in the Sinai. Among settlers, says Evanchik, "Everything is intertwined, kids,
religion, land and home. When fellow Jews want to destroy the homes of other
Jews, everyone has to protest, kids too."

   Before the prayers begin, Eliyahu - one of the main spiritual authorities for
the hard-line nationalist Orthodox - is to act as godfather at the circumcision
of a baby boy taking place in one of the protest tents. The brit ceremony seems
designed to symbolize the intertwining of religion, politics, tribal feeling and
youth: To be brought into the religious "covenant of Abraham" is to be enlisted
in the religious nationalist cause at the age of eight days.

   As the confrontation between the government and advocates of the Whole Land
escalates, the role of the young has captured increasing attention. In part, the
age of many of the protesters is predictable: Youth is an age of big ideas, free
time and the joy of posturing against authority. And, of course, the news
cameras don't show the other young religious Israelis, the ones who stay away
from protests and may feel a growing distance from rabbis who urge soldiers to
violate orders.

   At the same time, law enforcement authorities, mental health professionals
and child-rights advocates are asking whether settlers and their supporters are
exploiting and endangering children and teens in the name of the cause. Are
parents and state-salaried religious educators, inside Israel as well as in the
territories, encouraging or accepting truancy to boost the numbers at
demonstrations? Are settlers deliberately bringing small children to potentially
violent confrontations, essentially using their own toddlers as human shields?
Are they failing to rein in the youths who have fought soldiers and police to
stop evacuation of illegal outposts? In the settlements actually slated for
evacuation, are parents ignoring the trauma their children face as they insist
the withdrawal won't happen? Where lies the line between bringing children up to
your beliefs, and turning them into pawns?

   Assertions that they are exposing their children to physical and mental harm
outrage settlers. The charges, they say, are politically tainted and designed to
break their spirit. It's the government, they say, that is traumatizing the
young - by using force to oust teenagers from illegal outposts, uprooting
families from their Gaza Strip homes, and restraining the army, so the settlers
charge, from responding forcefully to the rain of Palestinian mortar shells on
Gaza settlements.

   The country's best-known advocate of children's rights, Dr. Yitzhak Kadman,
doesn't buy those arguments. Kadman, head of the independent National Council
for Child Welfare, filed a complaint with Attorney General Meni Mazuz, seeking
criminal action against mothers who took part in a late-December protest outside
the northern West Bank settlement of Sa-Nur, slated for evacuation. When
Disengagement Administration officials came to assess the value of property,
settlers lay down on the road to block them. Kadman says some mothers placed
their infants on the asphalt. "Sure, kids photograph great in protests," Kadman
says, "but endangering a child's life to further a parental agenda is against
the law."

   That view quickly got judicial backing from Jerusalem Magistrates Court Judge
Yehezkel Barkali. In early January, he set a legal precedent by giving suspended
sentences to three settler mothers from Hebron for failing to "fulfill their
parental obligations." In a bid to keep the army from demolishing the illegal
Hill 26 outpost outside Hebron, the three had barricaded themselves inside
mobile homes at the site with their infants. Barkali said there was "no excuse
for endangering one's children by bringing them to a violent protest."

   One of the mothers, Elisheva Federman, later blasted the decision by drawing
a comparison with two lesbians who permitted their young sons to appear in the
media after a recent Supreme Court decision allowing them to adopt each other's
children.  "No one complains that it's exploitative," Federman said, "because
gay rights is politically correct."

   Two days after the court decision, emotions exploded at a meeting of the
Knesset's Committee for the Rights of the Child that attempted to grapple with
questions such as children's legal rights during evacuation and the legitimate
use of kids in political conflict.

   As committee chairman Michael Melchior - a dovish Orthodox rabbi representing
the Meimad party - struggled to keep order, there were angry exchanges between
settler parents and children on the one hand and police, psychologists and
education experts on the other. Rinat Yitzchaki, an educator and Israel's
delegate to UNICEF, predicted that if the evacuation of the Gaza settlements
turns violent, children there "will face terrible conflict between a desire to
remain with their parents" and feeling "devastated that their parents are not
protecting them."

   Her words infuriate Rina Ackerman, a mother of 11 from the Gaza settlement of
Neveh Dekalim. "We moved where the government told us to, bought our homes with
good money and we're breaking the law?" she shouted from the guests' seats of
the committee room, holding a baby.

   When the issue of truancy and the schools' roles in protest arose, Melchior
asked Orel Morris, a 15-year-old from the Jerusalem suburb of Mevasseret Tzion
dressed in the hilltop-grunge style of outpost settlers, to answer. Morris
defended his right "to be part of the protest.  No one is forcing me. It's my
choice," to which Melchior - about to become deputy education minister in the
new government - responded sternly: "There is a compulsory school attendance law
in this country."

   But the most ferocious debate was over law enforcement. After hearing from a
police representative about the establishment of a new interministerial
committee - with participants from Internal Security, Justice, Welfare, and
Education - to create guidelines for law enforcement agencies on dealing with
the arrest and detention of children during evacuations of outposts and
settlements, Hebron police chief Avi Rotenberg warned bitterly that settlers
routinely "pervert the law to mock the police." A burly man, he told of teens
who occupied the Hilltop 26 outpost "in contempt of Supreme Court orders to
evacuate and then turned around and accused cops of brutality when they were
removed," and of a 4-year-old child in Hebron who recently threw an egg at a
cop.

   His words triggered rage. "You cops are instigating the violence by hounding
our kids," hollered Hebron settler activist Orit Strook. A settler teenager
named Shirah said, "We used to dress up as cops on Purim and now... never, not
after the police brutality I saw used against teenagers" at evacuations of
illegal outposts.

   "But Shirah," cuts in Melchior, "do you understand that, by law, you were not
allowed to be there?"

   The psychological impact of evacuation on the young people of Gaza's
settlements has experts deeply worried. Four thousand of the 8,000 settlers
slated for evacuation are under 18, according to settler leaders.

   According to Dr. Shosh Arbel, a child and adolescent psychiatrist at Soroka
Hospital in Beersheba, 20 percent of children who witness traumatic events
develop Post Traumatic Stress syndrome, which causes panic attacks, nightmares,
flashbacks and sleep disturbances, and warns that it could happen en masse to
Katif bloc children.

   Arbel thinks young nerves are already frayed in Gaza settlements. Since
Soroka is the nearest Israeli hospital, she has already treated some settler
children for terror-related trauma. Some patients, she notes, "are emotionally
exhausted. Kids who want out and may be relieved by the prospect of leaving."

   Clinical psychologist Yossi Toubiana says the disengagement "will definitely
cause scars for Katif bloc kids. The question is how to minimize them."
Toubiana, head of the Zahav Clinic in Petah Tikvah, which specializes in
stress-management treatments, counsels the government to provide Katif settlers
with therapy right now. His research with Prof. Noah Milgram on Yamit evacuees
revealed that the three years prior to the evacuation were the most stressful,
he says. "That's when people needed help most but weren't getting it. And they
suffered."

   Toubiana says settlers' refusal to even acknowledge the possibility of their
removal is not wise. "Parents have to gently start discussing the possibility
that it could happen with their kids. That will soften the blow and minimize
trauma." Ideally, he says, parents should explain to their kids that "we did
everything to prevent it and now we will leave our homes with our heads high."

   Alternatively, parents should draw up plans placing children with
grandparents or relatives during the evacuation process if violence is
anticipated. "Kids should know that the plan exists in a drawer in the house. It
will reduce their anxiety." He also approves of indulging children in fantasies
of returning some day. "That's a neurotic compensation that can work in the
short term." Both he and Arbel emphasize that allowing children to see their
parents being violently wrenched from their homes is to be avoided at all costs.

   But in the end, Toubiana hopes the very traits that brought settlers out to
Gush Katif to begin with - profound faith and powerful communal bonds - may save
them. "They should relocate as a group, en bloc. It will preserve ties and
promote healing."

   But not everyone feels standard insights apply. Dr. Moshe Leibler, an
Orthodox American-trained psychologist from the West Bank settlement of Kokhav
Hashahar, says the settler community is undergoing a period of "marginalization.
" Once heroes, they "are now considered enemies" and are mourning the loss of
status and perhaps loss of home. Genuine concern for settler children's mental
health, he says, could be demonstrated by "greater public validation of their
pain," meaning sympathy. Kadman warns against burdening settler parents with
accusations that they are inadequate. "They love their children as much as other
parents, and it would be counterproductive to deny this."

   And Yossi Krakover, a resident of Netzarim and principal of the elementary
school in Neveh Dekalim, says anyone who expects separating family members
during evacuation is dreaming. "This isn't a tsunami where the parents just
disappear. Come what may, we will do everything together as a family. Just as we
always have done."

   The prayer rally is under way.  Rabbi Eliyahu's ululating voice hauntingly
fills the streets. Among the other rabbis called to officiate is Yeshua Ben
Shoshan - a central member of the Jewish underground that sought to blow up the
Dome of the Rock to block the Israeli withdrawal from Sinai, the last time that
settlements were evacuated.

   As one rabbi's quivering voice shouts "The Lord is Our God" seven times, many
young people sway, eyes shut.

   Yehudah Raab, 18, whose home is Jerusalem but now studies in a yeshivah in
the West Bank settlement of Elon Moreh, thinks "reactions will be severe" should
the disengagement take place, "because no one is even considering the
possibility. I hope and pray it doesn't happen."

   But Hadas Neuman skitters around the edges of Dr. Toubiana's very thoughts. A
petite 19-year-old born and raised in Neveh Dekalim and now living at Netzarim,
she says though her parents have returned unopened mail from the Disengagement
Administration, "We aren't walking around with eyes shut and in denial."

   At first, she won't even answer the question, of "what if" the evacuation
goes ahead. But then she says: "If, Heaven forbid, we have to leave our homes,
it will be exceedingly difficult but young people will accept it. There won't be
a shattering of the spirit. We will know that we tried to do everything to save
our homes and country. If all fails, it won't be a reflection on us. We will
understand it as God's will." But then looking ahead, she adds quickly, "It's
really impossible to imagine."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               3 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: LEAVING LEBANON

BYLINE: Naftali Hilger

BODY:

   Despite a veneer of prosperity and growth in Beirut, it seems the only people
who want to stay are the Syrians

   Naftali Hilger Beirut

   "Believe me," Maral cries out, in a desperate attempt to be heard over the
overwhelming and deafening Techno music, "nightlife in Beirut is far more
vibrant than in New York." Maral, who looks like a Lebanese Julia Roberts, along
with a group of her cheerful young Lebanese friends, is giving me, a visiting
journalist, a crash course on Beirut-style entertainment. At the first pub, I
already have the feeling that the earth is trembling again in the Lebanese
capital, but this time around it is not an artillery bombardment, but
loudspeaker woofers pounding out the bass line of Trance music. Where an
ongoing, senseless civil war that lasted from 1975 to 1991 - with an Israeli
invasion thrown in - once made for some very frightening nights, Trance is now
heard around every corner.

   There are still copious signs of the war, in the form of uncleared ruins. An
extensive reconstruction program, "Beirut 2000," was undertaken a decade ago,
with the aim of doing the job by the end of 2000, but did not succeed in raising
the full $ 20 billion required to realize the master plan. Rebuilding continues,
but at a limited pace.

   Thanks to the bizarre priorities of the people who decide these things, the
rebuilding of the show business and entertainment districts of the city has
proceeded with far greater speed and efficiency than that of many residential
areas. Nightclubs have cropped up all over these quarters, taking the place of
the ruins. Some of the most popular clubs have names that evoke destruction: The
Hole in the Wall is a bar located in a building whose structure is still
perforated by the pockmarks of shells. The Atlantis Club is reminiscent of the
glamorous Beirut that existed before the destruction and violence of 16 years of
war.

   Beirut's nightlife can be very effective in helping you forget your daily
troubles, my new friends say. Despite Beirut's boomtown atmosphere, nearly all
say they would have a very hard time making a go of it - especially when "it"
includes club-hopping - without financial assistance from family members working
in oil states.

   A night on the town follows a well-established routine: Starting at about 11,
my companions, who include both Muslims and Christians, warm up at the Hole in
the Wall over a few beers. After midnight, they proceed to the main activity of
the evening - wild dancing on the tables at Atlantis. The partyers seem
remarkably unrestrained, especially as each table is actually an illuminated
aquarium and contains very young alligators or baby piranhas. I'm told that to
date, no mishaps or broken aquariums have been reported.

   By 3 a.m., the whiskey bottles have long been emptied. Yassir is taking a nap
on a sofa. The women, Maral, Nur and Lin (I have changed the names of all the
people I spoke with), descend slowly from the tables, rubbing their tired eyes.
Abu Ashar ("The Father of Chaos"), who goes by Michel during daylight hours,
keeps insisting he is sober and orders another shot of whiskey. Maral, our
22-year-old leader, who in addition to being a successful model, is also a
dancer, actress and a former psychology student, rallies her friends and
announces that the time has come "to move on to the real thing."

   The real thing is "BO-18," the hottest club in Beirut. This gets everyone to
their feet, even those who thought they had tired of having a good time.

   BO-18 is heard before it is seen. The sounds of Techno music emerge from its
front door to pierce the night, as they mix it up with the muezzin, trying to
call the public to their morning prayers. The discotheque, it turns out, was set
up in a gigantic pit in the midst of what used to be the Muslim neighborhood of
Carantina, near the sea, which was "shaved clean" of ruins at the end of the
war. The owners of BO-18 designed the place as a memorial to the neighborhood
that once stood here. Yet those who squeeze into this top-class Beirut nightclub
appear more interested in dancing than in the history of Carantina. Some men
dance with women, but others dance with other men: The gay scene in Beirut is
remarkable in the Arab world for its openness and boldness.

   Toward dawn, the place empties and a convoy of prestige sports cars moves
along the quiet streets of sleeping Beirut, on the road to the area where the
American University is located. This is the place where it is customary to end
your night over a cup of coffee at one of the 24-hour cafes situated around the
campus. Then my friends and I part, and I head back to my hotel.

   After a few hours of rest, I return to the campus of this prestigious
non-sectarian university, and strike up casual conversations with a few
students, most of whom say they are studying economics, science or computers. It
is hard to find even one young person who declares a willingness to stay in
Lebanon after the completion of his or her studies. True, Lebanon has always
been a country of emigration. But in the past decade alone, an estimated 200,000
people aged 18 to 20 (out of a population totaling about 3.5 million) emigrated
from Lebanon to Europe and North America. Amazingly, that is more than left the
country during all the years of the war. Bassel explains why he's planning to
become part of Lebanon's latest brain drain: "Enough is enough. I got tired of
making a contribution to Lebanon without getting anything in return. As soon as
I have completed my studies, I will go to Boston."

   His girlfriend, Lin, adds: "We are regarded here as the young Lebanese elite,
on the strength of our parents being able to afford to pay about $ 6,000 a year
in tuition. That's a huge sum in Lebanese terms. But there's virtually nothing
for us to do once we complete our studies. The government is incapable of
providing us with suitable jobs. Only those who have close ties to the
authorities get a post, and even that post will hardly provide a decent living."

   And the private sector is in even worse shape. Indeed, it is mainly the bleak
economic situation that is prompting young people to emigrate: A small apartment
remains a dream for most young couples, even after a recent decision by the
Solidere reconstruction company to lower the prices on flats, in response to the
economic crisis and a decline in demand. A one-room apartment in a middle-class
section of Beirut costs about $ 50,000, with a mortgage of $ 500 a month. Yet
the average wage of a professional or a university graduate amounts to about $
600 per month.

   So who can even afford to study here? "The middle class is almost completely
absent in Lebanon," explains Bassel. "You find either rich or poor people.
Whoever has family outside of Lebanon or friends in high places is economically
well situated."

   I meet Gerald at an Internet cafe next to the campus. "Three years ago, I
completed the courses for an MA in political science, but I haven't been able to
find a job, not in teaching and not in the public sector. I don't want to leave
my family, but eventually I'll have no other choice. If I ever want to have a
family myself, I'll have to immigrate to America. Here I can't even provide for
myself."

   The situation is indeed desperate. Unemployment stands at about 18 percent,
Lebanon's external debt amounts to around $ 22 billion (2004 public debt was
estimated to reach 185 percent of the GDP, the second only to Malawi) "but these
foreign loans were not invested in the reconstruction of the city," complains
Gerald, "but rather in the private Swiss accounts of the rulers of Lebanon and
Syria. Corruption reigns supreme."

   Elias, a lecturer in psychology at the university, is even more pessimistic:
"Peace is good, but it will not solve any of our problems. It did not solve the
economic problems of Egypt and Jordan either. And if there is ever peace between
Syria and Israel, the Americans will sell us off to the Syrians and we'll never
get rid of the Asad family."

   The Syrian occupation (there are some 15,000 Syrian armed personnel here) is
indeed extremely unpopular in Lebanon.  "They take advantage of Lebanon for
their own interests, milk our economy dry, transfer huge amounts of cash outside
of Lebanon and prevent our economy from developing," Elias complains. About one
million Syrian workers do the menial labor in Lebanon (whose indigenous labor
force is only 1.5 million) and send their salaries home every month. What is
considered a paltry sum in Lebanon, about $ 150 per month, can comfortably
support an entire Syrian family.

   Elias bitterly recapitulates the political situation: "The Lebanese
government has no significance. It does what the Syrians order. And every
political party has Syrian plants."

   At noon I meet with Emil, an old friend, whom I got to know during my first
visit to Beirut, in 1997. Emil, today in his late 20s, picks me up in his BMW
and insists on opening the sunroof, instead of using the air-conditioning. After
all, how else will passersby have an opportunity to enjoy the Arab pop music
emanating from his state-of-the-art stereo system?

   We drive slowly along the Corniche, the promenade that wraps around the city,
which is built on a promontory jutting into the Mediterranean. Beirutis are
picnicking on the beach. Rollerbladers skate their way past Syrian soldiers
jogging or doing gymnastics. Teenage girls in Western dress talk on their cell
phones as they stroll past Muslim mothers who are covered from head to toe.
Young couples walk arm-in-arm. A few young people dive from the promenade into
the sea, to the crowd's delight.

   Suddenly, there is shouting and turmoil. Across from a stand of Syrian
produce peddlers, a similar table has just been opened by some Lebanese who have
put up a sign announcing, "Lebanese vegetables sold by Lebanese." The police
clear the stand on the pretext that "it has no business license," thus leaving
the Syrian peddlers free from competition.

   George, a senior journalist at a widely distributed Beirut Arabic-language
newspaper, is one of those who adamantly and openly criticize the reconstruction
process. His comments relate not only to the reconstruction of buildings, but to
that of Lebanese society as a whole. "Time is our worst enemy," he tells me, as
we sit at the Cafe de Paris, on West Beirut's Al-Hamra Street. "Time makes us
forget, which allows us to repeat past mistakes. Many politicians sit in our
parliament whose crimes we chose to forget. If nobody was responsible for the
civil war, then nobody is responsible for the current situation either."

   The same people are in power, says George, and "they continue to wreak havoc
upon Lebanon: Corruption reigns supreme." Solidere, the company responsible for
reconstruction, and one of whose principal owners is Prime Minister Rafik
Hariri, "does not give a damn" about the city, and "the new Beirut has no soul
whatsoever." Hariri and company, he says, "pursue only economic goals, but they
don't achieve even one of them."

   George lights another cigarette and corrects himself: "Perhaps they have
covert goals, a hidden agenda. Maybe the entire reconstruction plan, in which
whole areas are destroyed and 'shaved clean,' is aimed at destroying the
collective memory of the city, so as to make people forget the war."

   The following morning, Emil is late for our farewell meeting. He apologizes,
rubbing his eyes: "I don't sleep well at night. We manage to forget the events
of the war during the day, but the fear overcomes us again during the night,
together with the friends who are not with us anymore. These friends were
engulfed, as it were, by the earth. It seems that dreams cannot forget." Which
may be why Maral and her friends spend so much of the night drinking and dancing
their horrors away.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               4 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: THROUGH THE WINDOW

BYLINE: Hanan Sher

BODY:

   The opportunities for the economy in 2005 are crystal clear, says Oded Tyrah,
who is going back to run a glass-making plant after five years as the point-man
for Israeli industry

   Hanan Sher

   He's just completed a five-year term as the head of the Manufacturers
Association, the person who speaks for Israel's capitalists. But Oded Tyrah's
self-image is that of a man of the people.

   Tyrah looks back to one day last August as one of his finest hours, when he
led hundreds of workers to Haifa port to protest a dockers' strike that cut off
industrial plants from their overseas customers. "Can you imagine the head of a
manufacturers group leading a demonstration of workers against other workers?"
he says. "That hasn't happened anywhere in the world."

   The workers, Tyrah contends, were primarily interested in saving their jobs.
"Look at what they said on TV. That they wanted a workplace, that they wanted
their plants to be competitive. I want that too."

   Beyond that, Tyrah - who calls himself a "social capitalist" - says he's
changed the image of the Manufacturers Association. In the past the
organization, which represents the business sector in economic talks involving a
troika of the government, business and the Histadrut trade union federation, was
dominated by wealthy owners of major industries, not the employees who run them.
Tyrah himself is not a captain of industry, but an ex-general who runs a large
glass-manufacturing concern on behalf of its Detroit-based owners.

   "The industrialists were always apologizing that they are rich," says Tyrah.
"I did things differently. Not once did I take a gallery of rich people with me
to talks in the Knesset, or with ministers. Instead I would go with managers of
industries, even of small plants. That's my constituency."

   The populist self-image only goes so far. Tyrah proudly recalls his role in
defeating a bill, proposed in 2000, to raise the minimum wage to $ 1,000 a
month. "This would have been a disaster," he says. "By increasing the costs in
companies all around Israel, it would have added 130,000 to the list of the
unemployed, closed down all kinds of industries, spelled disaster for the
economy."

   "On the eve of the Knesset vote, manufacturers asked why I hadn't brought out
the traditional big names, like Dan Propper (of Osem, his predecessor as
Manufacturers Association chief), why I hadn't staged a media campaign costing
several million shekels to sway some key votes. And I told them I was
concentrating on the smaller companies, and that a media blitz was as likely to
create resistance as it was to marshal support," Tyrah says.

   Keeping costs to companies down is the mandate Tyrah saw for himself at the
Manufacturers Association. So it isn't surprising to hear him toss aside the
idea that raising the minimum wage would stimulate demand, and the economy.
"That may work in America, where only 17 percent of production goes to export.
It's not true in Israel," he says with confidence. "In Israel, 70 percent is
export, the domestic market isn't big enough" to cause a ripple effect.

   Ben-Gurion University economist Arie Arnon says the Manufacturers Association
traditionally "wants the minimum wage to be kept low, and wants the law to be
enforced.  That's in contrast to many other employers, who wouldn't pay minimum
wages no matter what the law says."

   Arnon, who often dissents from official economic policy, notes that on
several issues the industrialists' positions "are better than the government.
For example, they recognize that labor unions have positive qualities.  That is
not the view that is taken these days by the Treasury."

   Tyrah's years at the HQ of the Manufacturers Association, on Hamered Street
near the Tel Aviv seafront, were among the most difficult in Israeli economic
history, due to the intifada and the high-tech crash of 2000. "Gross Domestic
Product shrank, resources contracted and every year was worse than the one that
preceded it. The economy was retrenching; our job was to see that programs that
would assure future growth, like research and development funding and aid to
small business, remained in place."

   Who's Tyrah's economic hero?  There's no question: It's Benjamin (Bibi)
Netanyahu, hands down. With Netanyahu at the Treasury, "we managed to carry out
several steps that, together with a world economic recovery, set the stage for
economic growth," including the contracting of the government payroll to free up
resources that can be utilized by private business and the reform that allows
pension and other retirement funds to invest heavily in the capital markets,
producing new investment money."

   Tyrah's use of "we" isn't coincidental: He says the manufacturers had a hand
in creating the "economic recovery" program introduced by Netanyahu in 2003. "A
group of us industrialists met at the Beit Umot Hamishpat office building on
Shaul Hamelekh Blvd. in Tel Aviv, and drew up a plan. I can even tell you the
date." Tyrah checks a notebook he's brought with him. "February 4, 2003. It
asked for a contraction of the public sector, encouraging capital investment, a
reduction of taxes. All ended up in Bibi's program."

   In fact, he thinks the private sector should be given a greater role in
economic decision-making. "What we need is a national economic council, like the
National Security Council, to set policy. It's impossible to have someone who
sits on the cash box setting long-range policy as well, but that's what the head
of the Treasury's Budget Department does. He is responsible for formulating
investment laws, the budget, everything," Tyrah says. "Industry doesn't work
that way. Does the company's accountant set long-range strategy? Of course not."

   What Tyrah suggests is a team working with the finance minister, "as a
counterweight to the bureaucrats. It should be made up of experts, and people
from industry, not theoreticians. Theories often crash on the rocks of reality."

   Is Israel then on the road to economic recovery, to the 5-percent annual
growth rates of the early 1990s? Tyrah doesn't put it that way. "I'd rather say
that we are about to enter a window of opportunity in 2005, a chance to
encourage aggressive investments in Israel. If it doesn't happen this year, we
may not get another chance for some time."

   The window has more to do with the world than it does with Israel, whose
economy depends largely on what it is able to export - and on America. "The
American economy is in trouble, it has a $ 600-billion budget deficit and a $
600-billion shortfall in its balance of trade. In order to close those gaps, the
administration is going to have to cut its budget and reduce demand. That will
influence the entire world."

   The threat, however, isn't immediate. "The cutback is inevitable," Tyrah
suggests, "but it won't happen right way. So we have to move quickly, to create
the potential for growth," while investment money from the U.S. is still
available.

   What he's advocating is a major boost in government incentives for opening
new plants, and in support for industrial R&D, to about 4 billion shekels ($ 800
million) in the upcoming budgetary year.  A bit more than half of that money has
already been made available, in 2.5 billion shekels worth of tax breaks, mostly
for corporations. Tyrah thinks the rest is easy to find in the same way that the
government came up with 1 billion shekels to lure United Torah Jewry and Labor
into the just-formed third Sharon government.

   He would use that money to attract companies with "a technological advantage
in what they do. Not necessarily high-tech firms; the technology can be in the
production or the marketing as well." To illustrate the kind of firm he's
thinking of, he mentions Phoenecia, the glass company he has managed since
shortly after he left the army in the mid-1980s, which has annual sales of about
400 million shekels (over $ 91 million). "We use lasers, all kinds of
technology," he says. "Right now we are putting up a new production line for
triplex, a laminated safety glass, that will be the world's most modern.
Technology can be used everywhere, even in basic industries."

   In his free-market economic views, Netanyahu advocates "a society based on
work, not welfare." But while the finance minister speaks vaguely of benefits
for the rich, whose investments will spur growth that will trickle down to all
those below the poverty line, industrialist Tyrah has a different idea - which,
expectedly, would not cost industry a cent.

   "We have to show compassion," he says, suggesting a government subsidy for
the salaries of workers like those who lost their jobs over the past few years,
when textile plants where they were employed shifted operations to cheap-labor
countries like Jordan and Egypt. He proposes a permanent government wage subsidy
- say of 1,000 shekels (about $ 220) a month for such people, and providing them
with places to work. This kind of project has already been started, in the Druse
community of Hurfeish. And Tyrah would like to expand it. "It would cost very
little for the government to put up a sewing factory that could employ hundreds
of workers," he maintains, sounding like a populist again. "And it's much better
than paying out the same sums in welfare."

   Tyrah's theme has been picked up by his successor, Shraga Brosh, the former
head of the Israel Export Institute.  Brosh says that manufacturers "must see
themselves not only as the engine of growth for the economy, but also as an
engine of social growth and reduction of gaps in society." Social capitalism, it
seems, has caught on - at least in the industrialists' vocabulary.

   SIDEBAR

   Televise No Evil

   The specter of clashes between settlers and troops evacuating them is not
something Oded Tyrah, the industrialist, would like potential investors in
Israel to see on TV.  And the ex-general, who commanded Operation Yonah Adumah
(Red Dove), the 1982 evacuation of the Rafiah Salient and Yamit under the peace
treaty with Egypt, proposes what most would consider an extreme, undemocratic
way to do that: Keep the media out.

   "It's an existential question.  The evacuation of Gush Katif is not a
sideshow. It's a central event in the history of the state, maybe of the Jewish
people," says Tyrah. "And if we don't do that intelligently, if we make it a
media circus, we can lose the country."

   To make his point, Tyrah talks about his experience in 1982 with Eli Panik, a
major under his command who lived in the town of Yamit.  "He came to me and
asked not to take part in the evacuation of the town where he lived, and I had
to decide.  If I tell him that he must, he'll refuse the order.  But he's not a
resister if I say OK.  So I agreed, told him to go home," Tyrah says.  "But if
the TV cameras had been there, I would have had to refuse, and there would be a
big issue." He compares the Panik case to the recent incident at Yitzhar, when a
soldier publicly called on troops to disobey orders to dismantle mobile homes at
an illegal West Bank outpost. "If they had not shown him on TV, would that have
hurt anyone?"

   What he proposes is a complete media blackout of the evacuation, and direct
orders to military personnel and politicians not to talk to reporters.  "The
only people who should talk are Arik (Prime Minister Sharon) and Defense
Minister Mofaz.  No one else."

   But won't such a blackout make a negative impression on investors?  Tyrah's
reply is blunt. "Would you prefer that investors see what will be happening at
Neveh Dekalim?  Will that make them invest?"

   He advocates dealing harshly with those who attempt to circumvent the
blackout with mini TV cameras or even videophones. "Anyone who does that will be
a lawbreaker, and should be dealt with as one," he says unsmilingly.

   Nor is he concerned with questions of freedom of the press and people's
rights, in Israel or the world, to be informed about a major news event.  "I don
't give a damn," he says. "The evacuation is an internal problem of the State of
Israel.  It must be solved with quiet and with intelligence. Period."

   H.S.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               5 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: WILL EISNER THE 'GOLDEN AGER' WHO INVENTED THE GRAPHIC NOVEL

BYLINE: Avi Katz

BODY:

   We were all kids when we started drawing comics...I was 19 when I published
my first strip...then my pal Jerry Iger and I put together the studio. We hired
some of the bright kids we knew - my classmate Bob Kane, Lou Fine, Jack
Kirby...and hammered out a comics supplement for the newspapers. The studio was
run like a slave ship, and I was the drummer! The book "Kavalier and Clay" is
all about that "Golden Age."

   Yeah, Siegel and Shuster came to me first with their character "Superman."
Nothing against superpowers, I just thought their drawing was too primitive.
Then a publisher asked me to create "another Superman." My "Wonderman" wore red
tights, but that was about all the difference. I signed with a pen name, though,
so it was the publisher who got his pants sued off!

   I did a swashbuckler called "Hawks of the Seas" and a female Tarzan called
"Sheena of the Jungle," but my pet contribution was "The Spirit," a detective
named Denny Colt who had been killed by an arch-villain but he wasn't really
dead. From his hideout in Wildwood Cemetery he would emerge to "fight crime as a
freelance outlaw," while he outmaneuvered the bumbling cops and battled or
rescued glamorous women. But the stories were more often about the victims and
the villains than about The Spirit himself.

   I wrote and drew "The Spirit" myself and was my own boss, so I could make it
for an audience beyond 15-year-old cretins from Kansas... I could talk about
frustration and heartbreak, abuse, corruption, urban blight; and experiment with
format and layout. The comics medium was young, and there was room to invent a
whole new language. I brought in tricks of perspective, composition and
chiaroscuro, from art, film and photography, but strived for the weight of
reality... when the Spirit walked the streets of "Central City," I wanted you to
hear the subway rumbling below.

   When the war came, I got drafted to do comics for Uncle Sam. Afterwards I
pursued the use of the medium in education and business. One of the youngsters I
brought in to help with "The Spirit" was a kid named Jules Feiffer.

   In 1976, pushing 60, I decided to tell a story from the heart and guts, no
holds barred, using the medium I knew best. I called it "A Contract with God - a
Graphic Novel," and it had no heroes, no glamour, no adventure. It was set in
the Depression Bronx of my childhood... Oh, there was sex, and death, and crime
and violence, but they all added up to heartbreak. And I allowed myself to deal
with that ever-so-complicated business of being Jewish.

   Since then I've done a dozen other Graphic Novels, and the term has sure
caught on, with hundreds coming out every year. I also wrote a textbook
explaining comics called "Sequential Art" and that's caught on too - there are
even art schools with a Sequential Art Department. There is an annual award for
comics achievement called "The Eisner," and they let me hand it out myself!

   I know I should be sunning myself on a beach somewhere, but there is so much
to do. I've just finished a new graphic novel called "The Plot," about the
creation of "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion" - it'll knock your socks off.
I'm not a kid anymore, but there's plenty of storytelling left in me...

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               6 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Report
                              The Jerusalem Report

                                February 7, 2005

SECTION: Pg. 47

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: HOW TO CURB THE SOLDIER SADISTS

BYLINE: Gayil Hareven

BODY:

   How to Curb the Soldier Sadists

   The soldier was bothered, but more than that he was exhausted by his brutal
basic training. He was telling me about his rookie unit's first operational
duty, two days before: support for a search in a Palestinian village. All the
males had been concentrated in a field, and some recruits were ordered to guard
them.

   And your commanders? I asked. No, there were no commanders there, just
recruits. All the commanders had joined the search, and the hours that the young
rookies spent watching the Palestinians was the longest time they had gone
unsupervised since their induction.

   After a while, some of the boys decided to have some fun. They gave the
Palestinians, old and young, a little physical education. A jog around the
field, some push-ups. Nothing special. Just to pass the time. Just for laughs.

   And then what happened? Nothing. The company commander heard about it and
gave them a talking to. They were really out of line, he said, but no one was
punished.

   Though more than 20 years have gone by since then, those involved -
tormentors and victims - surely remember it, and I can make only banal guesses
about how it affected their lives. A few weeks later the base commander was
relieved of his position, not because of the abuse of the Palestinians, but
because of maltreatment of recruits.

   As an education officer in the same unit, I always saw a link between the
sadism of the training and the sadism of the recruits. Today, I am not so sure.
Treatment of recruits has softened a lot, but abuses still happen, and they will
as long as the army doesn't make stopping them a major goal.

   Every society has too many people with a strong potential for violence and
weak moral restraints. We see them in schools, in discos, in malls, and on the
roads - and, in a country with military conscription, obviously they're going to
be in the army too. There's no way of screening them out, and even if there
were, there are too many to exempt them all.

   Leftists blame everything on the occupation which, they say, corrupts even
saints.  No one is guilty, because the occupation has made us all beasts. There
's no way to eradicate the phenomenon, they imply, until the apocalypse of the
political solution rolls around. As for rightists, too many don't really care
that Arabs are abused, or they claim that any suffering inflicted on the
Palestinians is infinitely less acute than Israel's suffering, or they fear that
tackling the issue openly will harm Israel's reputation.

   Right and left seem to have joined forces to prevent focused treatment of the
crimes of abuse of innocent Palestinians. Personally, I don't believe that
anyone is condemned to become a beast. I know many soldiers who have never been
abusive, and I can't even imagine them behaving sadistically. By blaming the
occupation, we are exonerating both the individual abuser and the army as a
whole. I believe that much can be done to reduce the dimensions of the abuses,
even in the current situation. But to find effective remedies, the discourse
must be divorced from politics.

   For one thing, the important work done by the women of Machsom Watch at the
roadblocks - sites of frequent abuses - would resonate louder if they would
fully Hebraize their name to show that their main aim isn't to impress the
foreign media. And they should recruit at least a few members who believe that
the work the soldiers are doing at the roadblocks is vital.

   Abusive situations have set patterns, the same ones that figured in that
story from my army days: soldiers not carefully trained to do the job; lack of
supervision by superiors; and no meaningful punishment for offenders. Soldiers
know what will happen if a suicide bomber gets through the roadblock. But they
are not briefed on the potential results of sadistic or humiliating conduct
although this too has security significance. I do not believe that those men who
were forced to perform exercises 20 years ago were doomed to become terrorists,
but surely the cruel humiliation made it all the more likely that they would.

   Internalization of this complex matter by troops will take more than one
hasty, pre-operational briefing. And until it is absorbed, it is important to
listen carefully to the complaint frequently voiced by soldiers that they have
been dumped somewhere with a dangerous and stressful policing mission, without
the necessary tools or training. As long as this sort of thing happens, the
practical solution is proper supervision.

   Every high school teacher knows that in the absence of constant supervision,
hooliganism takes over, and that one of the ways of averting hooliganism is
reacting sharply and immediately to any hint of misconduct. What is true for
students of 16 and 17 is also true for stressed-out youngsters of 18 and 20,
especially when they have power over the people they are policing, and guns in
their hands.

   Contributing editor Gayil Hareven is a writer living in Jerusalem.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

                               7 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Advertiser

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: SUPERSTAR ON TRIAL;
Jacko circus rolls into town

BYLINE: NICK PAPPS

BODY:

    He was the self-proclaimed King of Pop, but Michael Jackson faces the
biggest battle of his life, as NICK PAPPS and agencies  in California report.

   MICHAEL Jackson, the eccentric king of pop, kicked off the fight of his life
waving and flashing V-for-victory signs as he arrived to the adulation of
hundreds of fans at court yesterday.

   Facing more than 20 years behind bars for allegedly molesting then
13-year-old cancer patient Gavin Arvizo, a smiling Jackson charmed potential
jurors and dazzled fans in an all-white suit and spats amid a typical blaze of
publicity.

   So big was the carnival-like atmosphere at Jackson's arrival that he was
forced to file past legions of satellite TV trucks and more than 1000 media
representatives from around the world, while news helicopters thudded overhead
and camera crews were posted on the roofs of nearby buildings.

   Many fans - from as far afield as Britain, France and Germany - had been
camped outside the Santa Maria courthouse in California overnight.

   As they screamed for their hero, the father-of-three stopped twice, waved to
the crowd and then headed inside to the courtroom as a bodyguard trailed behind
with an umbrella to keep the sun off the popstar.

   Several anti-Jackson observers showed up, too, with signs such as "We Support
the Victims" and "Those Are My Private Parts".

   In what some are calling America's trial of the century, the 46-year-old's
tattered reputation is on the line and he began the first day of his trial with
a mix of showbiz and court cunning.

   But for the men and women who will decide Jackson's fate, it was a bizarre
start to the first day of jury selection.

   Just before 10.45am, the first batch of more than 170 potential jurors was
led into the rear of the court. Straight away, Jackson switched on the charm. He
stood up, turned around, buttoned his jacket and smiled widely at the group,
making eye contact with as many people as possible as they made their way to
their seats.

   For the next hour and 15 minutes, nearly half of the 300 people summoned were
excused after offering reasons ranging from the tragic to the bizarre.

   They included a rocket launch controller who said he had several satellites
to launch into space, to a woman who was due to give birth in a month and a
criminal who was serving home detention.

   Judge Rodney Melville allowed 125 of the potential jurors to beg off duty
that will consume about six months of the lives of the 12 jurors and the eight
reservists who are eventually chosen after the selection process which is
expected to take four weeks.

   At 4.10pm, Jackson strolled to his waiting vehicle, gave one last wave to the
crowd and was driven off to his Neverland ranch, leaving dozens of fans dashing
for their cars to follow the convoy.

   Michael Jackson's arch enemy during his molestation trial will be Janet
Jackson - and that's not his famous singing sister.

   Janet Jackson is the mother of Gavin Arvizo, the 13-year-old cancer patient
Jackson is accused of molesting.

   She recently married a US soldier, Jay Jackson, and has changed her name from
Arvizo to Jackson and for the past few weeks, Janet, husband Jay, Gavin, who is
now 15, his younger brother, Star, 14, and sister, Davellin, 18, have all been
in a witness protection program in the lead-up to the Jackson trial.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                               8 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Advertiser

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Spiritual sounds

BYLINE: By HARBANT GILL

BODY:

    ACTOR Garry McDonald raves about the music, and it's a hit in yoga and
meditation circles for its ability to uplift. Krishna Das's Live on Earth (for a
limited time only)  CD comes with a warning about speeding tickets if you listen
to it while at the wheel.

   From experience, the alert is mandatory.

   Now, the man himself, raised on Long Island as Jeffrey Kagel by Jewish
parents, is coming to Australia for the first time.

   KD, as he prefers, has done private sessions with Madonna, sung with Sting
and released several albums, but what he loves most is the incessant touring of
the past 10 years or so. He averages more than two gigs a week.

   "Chanting with normal people is what I like best," he says from his rented
rustic cabin in upstate New York, where he parks his car that "keeps breaking
down".

   "It is basically a meditation technique that involves singing. It's not about
religion, although I'd say it's spiritual.

   "It's a way of calming the mind and untying certain knots in the heart. It
gives you a peace of mind that comes from within.

   "And I don't treat it as a performance either. I do it to be with myself. I
sing and people respond . . . we are helping each other. The chants themselves
take you deeper."

   KD, who will play the harmonium and sing in the ancient Sanskrit language,
will have tabla accompaniment at what could be called a mass singalong.

   "The chants are thousands of years old and they help people enter into a
deeper relationship with the universe," he says. "So, the chant itself carries
an amazing charge."

   KD, who has no classical musical training, says he chants because he "can't
help it". As children, he and his younger sister, with a teacher mother and a
lawyer father who later became a psychoanalyst, had everything they could want.

   But "there was some piece missing" even before his parents split up when he
was 16.

   "I was frustrated and depressed. Angry," says the 57-year-old who jokes about
majoring in "basketball and drugs" at university.

   "It wasn't until I learned about yoga and meditation that I really got
interested."

   He met American spiritual teacher Ram Dass, read a lot and at 23 sold his
car, guitar and record collection to travel to India, where he studied under
Maharaj-ji Neem Karoli Baba for nearly three years.

   He adopted a new name, which means servant of God - which he took a while to
get used to - and had the desire to sing.

   "I didn't learn to chant as a future method of employment. I just chanted
because I loved it. We were not learning chanting or learning devotion. We were
just being devoted," he says.

   KD spent years doing therapy and seeking the help of various teachers to
tackle his depression before he was ready to sing from a healing heart.

   "I'm still working on the issues of self-love and self-worth," he says.

   Now he arranges his own "weird New York versions of chants" to which he
brings his musical influences that range from Ray Charles and Van Morrison to
Indian ragas.

   "I'm not on a mission. The main reason I chant is that I need to. Nothing
helps me more," he says.

   "And nothing forces me to sing more intensely and give myself more to the
practice than being in front of a thousand people.

   "I'm not trying to be Indian and yet I got everything from India. It came out
of India in me. The outer form is not important to me. It's the inner."

    *  Krishna Das's Heart of Devotion Tour is here on February 17, at the
Fogolar Furlan Hall, 69 Briar Rd, Felixstow. Bookings at BASS.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                               9 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: It's tough, sacked judge's replacement told

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Vanda Carson

BODY:

    JUDGES need to be thick-skinned and broad-shouldered to withstand
"ill-informed and even scurrilous media attacks", given the intense public
scrutiny of their role.

   The state's chief law officer made the comments at a ceremony in Sydney
yesterday convened to swear in former barrister Peter Johnson SC as replacement
for disgraced former NSW Supreme Court judge Jeff Shaw.

   NSW Attorney-General Bob Debus replaced Mr Shaw when the former minister
resigned from the Carr Labor Government four years ago.

   Mr Debus used yesterday's gathering of 42 Supreme Court judges and dozens of
leading silks to complain of the burdensome and "arduous nature" of joining the
judiciary, but said Justice Johnson would bring his intellect and dedication to
the role.

   "Your work will be hard, the hours will be long and the light of public
scrutiny, rightly, will shine brightly upon your efforts," Mr Debus said. "It is
a burden that you and your fellow judges shoulder willingly in the service of
the law, and we thank you for it.

   "The court has been from time to time the focus of ill-informed and even
scurrilous attack. But I can firmly state that you join today a bench renowned
nationally and internationally for breadth of learning, rigour and diligence."

   Mr Debus did not mention his former colleague by name, but it was clear he
was referring to the media storm that followed the 55-year-old Mr Shaw's
resignation from the court after he was charged over an incident in which he
allegedly crashed his car while driving with a blood alcohol reading that was 4
1/2 times the legal limit.

   Mr Shaw has maintained a low profile this year but is expected to appear at
Sydney's Downing Centre local court on February 18 to enter a plea on charges of
high-range drink-driving and negligent driving.

   Justice Johnson, who begins his first case today, has worked as a solicitor
and barrister for 29 years, starting in legal aid and rising to appearances
before the Independent Commission Against Corruption and the inquiry into the
Waterfall rail disaster. He specialised in commissions of inquiry and inquests,
as well as appellate and criminal law.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              10 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Officer feared bribe cover-up

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Jennifer Sexton

BODY:

    THE NSW policeman who played a central role in filming covert footage of a
Sydney mayor taking a cash bribe said he did not take the footage to the
authorities because he was afraid of a cover-up.

   "I knew as soon as someone got wind of any allegation of corruption there
could be a cover up. It involved politicians and councillors and they are fairly
well connected and at the time they were only allegations," the man, who has
since left the force and whose name is suppressed, told the Independent
Commission Against Corruption yesterday.

   The property developer, Michael Saklaoui, who recruited the man to help him
videotape the bribe, had been his friend for 18 years and was godfather to his
child.

   Mr Saklaoui has claimed he wanted to record Alfred Tsang accepting a $2500
cash bribe because Mr Tsang, then mayor of Strathfield in Sydney's inner west,
had asked for money in exchange for facilitating a development.

   "I trusted (Mr Saklaoui) to the nth degree to take it to the authorities and
make sure it was investigated," the man told yesterday's hearing.

   The former senior constable with the tactical response unit told the hearing
he purchased, set up, recorded and compiled the covert footage at Angelos on the
Bay restaurant in Cabarita on July 23 last year. He left the police force on
August 21.

   He admitted to spending $6500 of Mr Saklaoui's money on 17 pieces of
equipment used in the entrapment.

   The ICAC also heard yesterday that Labor councillor John Abi-Saab knew about
the footage the day that "witness two" had compiled it on to CDs and given it to
Mr Saklaoui.

   Mr Tsang told the hearing that Mr Abi-Saab threatened to take the bribery 
allegations to the media and the corruption watchdog unless Mr Tsang stood aside
as mayor.

   But Mr Abi-Saab -- who had lost control of Strathfield Council when Mr Tsang
replaced him as mayor in April last year -- did not know that Mr Tsang had
already been to ICAC and had been wired to record Mr Abi-Saab's plot to regain
control.

   Two days after Mr Abi-Saab first told Mr Tsang that he had been approached by
strangers with the allegation that the "mayor was f..king corrupt", Mr Tsang
admitted to the ICAC that he had taken the bribe, which was a deposit on a
$200,000 payment for facilitating a potentially profitable rezoning and
redevelopment.

   "He (Mr Abi-Saab) gave me an ultimatum that 'by 12 o'clock you must resign or
I will call a press conference'," Mr Tsang told the hearing yesterday.

   "He said, 'I will take it to ICAC', and then hung up," Mr Tsang said of a
phone call from Mr Abi-Saab on August 9, a week after ICAC was informed.

   Mr Saklaoui was due to give evidence yesterday but his solicitor, Pierre
Saab, presented a medical certificate and the hearing was adjourned to 10am
today.

   Counsel assisting the ICAC Michael King SC said he had earlier been told by
Mr Saab that Mr Saklaoui would return from overseas on Sunday but would not be
able to give evidence until today because he was expected to have jetlag. In
fact, he returned on Friday, Mr King said.

   Mr Saab would not reveal to The Australian yesterday the nature of his client
's illness but said it was not jetlag.

   "I am not obliged to say. Suffice to say he is ill and he will be in
tomorrow."

   Features -- Page 13

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              11 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Nepalese king sacks government in the name of democracy

SOURCE: AFP

BODY:

    KATHMANDU: King Gyanendra has dismissed Nepal's coalition government and
seized control of the country, which is battling a Maoist revolt, as political
leaders accused him of staging a coup.

   "I have exercised the rights given to the crown under the present
constitution and dissolved the government in the larger interests of the people,
" the king said in an address on national television yesterday.

   He said he would head the new government himself. "For the larger interest of
the Nepalese public, the nation and democracy and people's fundamental rights,
we have decided to form a new government under my own chairmanship."

   But political leaders accused the king, who took the throne after a palace
massacre in 2001, of carrying out a coup.

   "The king has staged a coup and taken over the country's administration and
other powers into his own hands," said Sujata Koirala, leader of the women's
wing of the Nepali Congress and daughter of a former prime minister.

   State radio said the king had suspended articles of the 1991 constitution,
but did not say which ones.

   Party sources said several key political leaders -- including those of the
Nepal Communist Party United Marxist and Leninist, the main partners in the
former coalition government -- were under house arrest. The king accused the
political parties of "indulging in factional fighting".

   "All the democratic forces and political leaders should have united to
protect the country's democracy," he said in his half-hour address.

   "Innocent children have been found massacred, however the government could
not achieve any important and effective results.

   "The crown is traditionally held responsible for the protection of national
sovereignty, democracy and people's right to live peacefully. It is the duty of
the crown to protect all these segments of society."

   The king summoned Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for a meeting on Monday
night, a senior cabinet minister said.

   "The king discussed three pertinent issues with Deuba, including the current
law-and-order situation and the proposed elections," the minister and close
confidant of Mr Deuba said.

   The PM promised last month to hold postponed elections after the rebels,
fighting to topple the monarchy and establish a communist republic, failed to
respond to his ultimatum to hold peace talks.

   But Mr Deuba had not yet set a date, and his government coalition partners
opposed holding a vote before peace negotiations resumed with the rebels, who
had vowed to sabotage elections. The king sacked Mr Deuba in 2002 and branded
him incompetent for failing to hold elections and fight the Maoist revolt. At
the same time, he dismissed parliament.

   But King Gyanendra recalled the veteran politician last year, ordering him to
hold elections and engage in peace talks as international and domestic pressure
grew on the monarch to restore democracy.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              12 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: US guards kill four in prison camp riot

SOURCE: Reuters

BODY:

    BAGHDAD: US troops in Iraq have shot dead four detainees during a protest
riot at the main US jail for suspected militants near the Kuwaiti border.

   The US military said six prisoners were wounded in yesterday's violence, in
which hundreds of inmates rioted at Camp Bucca, near Umm Qasr in southern Iraq.

   Troops shot the four dead after failing to quell rock-throwing protesters
with plastic balls fired from shotguns.

   "We're not sure exactly what sparked it," said Lieutenant-Colonel Barry
Johnson, the officer in charge of US military detentions in Iraq.

    "There's no obvious connection with the election. We're not sure if that had
anything to do with it."

   There were no injuries among the US troops during the 45-minute riot.

   The violence broke out after military guards searched one of the prison camp
's 10 compounds looking for banned items, the US military said.

    The trouble spread to three other compounds, which contain more than 2900 of
Camp Bucca's 5300 detainees.

   "The riot quickly spread to three additional compounds, with detainees
throwing rocks and fashioning weapons from materials inside their living areas,"
the US statement said.

   "Guards attempted to calm the increasingly volatile situation using verbal
warnings, and when that failed, by use of non-lethal force.

   "After about 45 minutes of escalating danger, lethal force was used to quell
the violence."

   The US said the names of those killed were being given to the Iraqi
Government and the International Committee of the Red Cross.

   "The cause of the riot and use of lethal force is under investigation by the
chain of command and the US army's criminal investigations division, which is
standard procedure whenever a detainee death occurs."

   This is not the first time US troops have fired on Iraqi prisoners: three
detainees were killed in a protest at Baghdad's Abu Ghraib prison in November
2003. And UD officers have reported unrest in Camp Bucca's razor wire compounds
in recent months.

   But the extent of the violence took US troops -- recently arrived military
police reservists -- by surprise.

   This may raise questions about the expansion of the desert prison, which has
taken over from Abu Ghraib as the main US jail in Iraq following the abuse 
scandal at the Baghdad prison last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              13 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Machinations and the mayor

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Jennifer Sexton

BODY:

    Bribery and corruption has taken on the flavour of a Hollywood thriller at a
Sydney council, reports Jennifer Sexton

   THAT a developer had given a mayor a $2500 cash bribe was in itself a serious
allegation for the NSW corruption watchdog. But as Alfred Tsang, the novice
mayor of suburban Sydney's Strathfield Council, was confessing to the
Independent Commission Against Corruption that he had accepted a wad of $100
notes from a western Sydney developer, claims of a "far more sinister and
cynical plot" were quickly emerging.

   At stake were millions of dollars in potential profits, which had been
rapidly evaporating in the three short months that Tsang had been mayor.

   With a couple of stinging mayoral minutes, Tsang set about overturning
rezonings being drafted by the previous Labor regime. The council had been
redrawing a 33-year old Local Environment Plan that was to deliver
multimillion-dollar profit potential to the developers who purchased certain
little houses and run-down commercial sites where 12-storey residential and
commercial redevelopments were set to be permitted.

   Add to that a decision not to award a lease for a club with poker machines,
and the Unity Party's Tsang had made enemies of all the wrong people. Key among
them was a small army of Lebanese developers, his friend and the mayor he had
replaced -- Labor councillor John Abi-Saab -- as well as state MP and Labor
powerbroker Eddie Obeid.

   ICAC's counsel assisting Michael King SC opened the first day of a three-week
hearing on Monday with some explosive allegations, pointing the finger at
Abi-Saab as the man behind the plot to record Tsang on hidden camera taking a
wad of $100 notes in order to end Tsang's reign at Strathfield, returning
control to himself.

   When the tape was leaked to The Australian it would also tear Tsang's
reputation to shreds. "A power struggle of Machiavellian nature, fuelled by
ambition and greed and carried forward by deceit and dishonesty," King said in
his opening. "Fortunes could be made or lost, depending on the eventual outcome
for the draft [LEP] and the timing of when the sale [of land] was made."

   On the covert recording Tsang is shown pocketing the cash at Angelos on the
Bay restaurant on July 23 last year. It was a down payment on $200,000 promised
if he rezoned a free council car park and three adjoining houses for the benefit
of developer Michael Saklaoui. Tsang nods on the footage as Saklaoui tells him:
"We got the profit then you can make, I can make. Everybody happy."

   Moments before Saklaoui hands over the cash the pair clink glasses in a quick
toast with red wine and Saklaoui says: "I don't want anybody to know, all right?
"

   After putting the cash in his shirt pocket and looking over his shoulder to
check for onlookers, Tsang says the deal would deliver benefits such as a
library, a child health centre and secure, undercover parking. "I'm making
Strathfield a better place," Tsang says. "For sure," replies Saklaoui.

   All the while Tsang had no idea Saklaoui had spent almost $6500 on recording
equipment -- including several cameras and an audio recording device -- and had
arranged for a senior constable with NSW Police's tactical response unit (whose
name is suppressed) to sit at an adjacent table with three others and assist
with the sophisticated recording.

   The day that police officer -- who left the force on August 21 last year --
copied the recordings on to CDs and gave them to his friend Saklaoui, Abi-Saab
told Tsang that he had been approached on the street by two strangers who said
they had evidence that Strathfield's mayor was corrupt.

   Abi-Saab told Tsang he must resign to resolve the problem. He offered to
stand in as mayor for six months and then let Tsang take over again. Tsang says
this made little sense -- he had already returned the money to Saklaoui. Two
days after Abi-Saab's first approach Tsang went to ICAC, where Tsang was wired
up to allow the plot to further unfold.

   Four meetings between Abi-Saab and Tsang followed, culminating in a number of
threats to go to ICAC and the media. "He gave me an ultimatum that 'by 12 o
'clock you must resign or I will call a press conference, he said, 'I will take
it to ICAC' and then hung up," Tsang says of his phone call from Abi-Saab on
August 9, a week after ICAC was informed.

   The following day at a closed council meeting Abi-Saab told the nine
councillors -- three of his Labor colleagues, three Liberals and independent
deputy mayor Elizabeth Gewandt -- that there was a "shadow of corruption" over
the council. Tsang called his contact at ICAC.

   Tsang represents the Unity Party, which was set up in response to anti-Asian
sentiment generated by Pauline Hanson; until the last bitterly fought council
elections in March 2003, he was in cahoots with Labor, led by Abi-Saab, and
before that, state MP Virginia Judge.

   Abi-Saab had replaced Judge as mayor in March 2003, after she was elected to
state parliament.

   Labor spent almost $100,000 fighting last year's election, with $84,500 of
that donated by local developers, electoral funding records show.

   In an interview with The Australian in December, Abi-Saab denied all
wrongdoing, said he was not involved and claimed the rezonings would have no
commercial benefit to him or to any of his Lebanese friends, including Obeid.

   Yet follow the web of directors who sit alongside Obeid on a charitable trust
called the Cedars Foundation, and Abi-Saab on a medical services company, and a
different story emerges.

   One of those directors is Anne Bechara, whose 35-year friendship with Obeid
led to her becoming one of seven Lebanese to donate up to $400,000 to the Cedars
Foundation. Obeid set up the trust in January last year under a constitution
that seeks to support the local youth of western Sydney.

   Not long after Tsang became mayor he thwarted the Cedars Foundation's plans
to reinvent a disused bowling club. The foundation wanted to move the club's 29
poker machines to a new site and use the proceeds on sport and employment
programs for local youth.

   But Tsang, a devout Catholic, was offended by the long-term plan to build it
into a mega-club with more poker machines that would encourage gambling and
generate huge profits.

   Bechara's link to Abi-Saab was through shared directorships on a medical
supplies company called Australian International Medical Services Pty Ltd.
Bechara's husband Eddy was an alternate director. All three resigned on November
22 last year, at about the time the power struggle over Strathfield was tilting
out of control, but had yet to implode.

   Obeid and Abi-Saab's families had been close for several generations in
Lebanon, and in the early 1990s Obeid was guarantor on a $250,000 loan for
Abi-Saab when he was in terrible financial strife and had little means to repay.

   Anne Bechara's company, Prestige Constructions, paid $4.5 million in February
2003 for the Spanish Inn, one of the sites set to be awarded a generous
12-storey rezoning under the new LEP.

   The Spanish Inn on Liverpool Road is directly opposite the car park behind
the Crossways Hotel -- the very space that Tsang and Saklaoui discuss in the
covert footage.

   Another developer on Obeid's Cedars Foundation is George Elias, and he owns
land opposite the Spanish Inn on the Homebush Road side of the corner.

   Both Bechara and Elias have been questioned in relation to the investigation
but it is not yet known if they will be called to give evidence.

   King on Monday told the hearing one of the sites that stood to benefit most
from the changes was the AMF Bowling Alley on Liverpool Road.

   Obeid's son Eddie Jr was paid a $50,000 consultancy fee by developer Eddie
Chahine for the sale of the AMF site -- which did not proceed -- in September
2003.

   If the LEP had been signed off at state government level, the value of these
sites would have been very "significantly enhanced", King said. "Unless the
property was rezoned that potential could not be realised."

   The inquiry continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              14 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Leader; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Iraq naysayers must take a long hard look

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    FOR their sheer ingenuity in being able to discover the cloud inside the
silver lining of Sunday's historic election in Iraq, you must give full marks to
those who oppose the US-led effort there. Despite the high turnout of Iraqi
voters, several Australian newspapers tried valiantly to present the election as
a bad-news story. "It's the gun, not the vote, that counts as threats and
violence sweep Iraq," said a heading on Monday in the Sydney Morning Herald. In
a subsequent edition this became: "It was only a personal threat of violence
that motivated some people to go to the polls." Given somewhere between eight
and nine million Iraqis turned out, that is either a lot of personal threats of
violence or a complete furphy.

   In the election's aftermath, the "Not in my name" crowd are going to have to
take a reality check. No doubt the election was only the first step along Iraq's
road to becoming a stable and inclusive democracy. But the enthusiasm with which
Iraqis took that step entirely discountenances the view that the country would
now be better off if the coalition of the willing had never stirred to action.
Forget the ridiculous overestimations of the civilian death toll in Iraq that
have acquired the status of received wisdom among leftist pundits: sober and
scientific estimates of the toll place it between 15,000 and 18,000. Terrible as
that number is, it is small compared with the number Saddam would have dragged
off to his torture chambers over the same period, if allowed. Is it not
heartless and legalistic to suggest that, because no WMD were found, the war was
illegal and a generation of Iraqis should never have had the opportunity to know
democracy and freedom?

   More disturbing has been the lionisation of Iraq's insurgents by leading
members of the international Left. "We have no choice now but to support the
resistance," film-maker John Pilger told an interviewer last year. As recently
as November, the same view was espoused by Arundati Roy, recipient of the
mis-named Sydney Peace Prize: "We have to throw our weight behind the
resistance." Resistance? On the eve of the election, the de facto leader of the
insurgency, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, warned voters: "Sunday will be bloody for the
Christians and Jews and their mercenaries and whoever takes part in the election
game of America and Allawi." It is time for the coalition of the whining --
those who have opposed every step the coalition has taken and construed these
events as another Vietnam -- to ask themselves a tough question. If John Howard
and Tony Blair and George W. Bush do not act in their names, does al-Zarqawi?

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              15 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Leader; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Put magistrates in their proper place

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    AN intemperate email cost Di Fingleton dear. While chief magistrate in
Queensland, she asked a subordinate why he should stay in his senior position
after he backed a colleague fighting Ms Fingleton over an unwanted transfer. But
because the transfer was being considered by a committee of judges, in 2003 Ms
Fingleton was convicted of breaching a law protecting witnesses from
retaliation. Her career was ruined and she went to prison. Ms Fingleton is now
out of jail and yesterday appeared before the High Court in an attempt to have
her conviction quashed, before breaking down in tears.

   Whatever the outcome of her appeal, it is hard not to see Ms Fingleton as the
victim of a public service culture committed to protecting its members' perks.
Her troubles stemmed from the refusal of magistrates to transfer to country
courts that do not suit their personal circumstances. In reality, Ms Fingleton
was chief magistrate in name only, with no practical power to direct her junior
colleagues. Nor was she alone in facing insubordination. In 1999, her
predecessor, Stan Deer, retired in the face of a revolt over a transfer. In
2000, the Victorian chief magistrate resigned after the magistrates' association
decided it had no confidence in him. And in South Australia, a group of
magistrates have appointed themselves an internal opposition to management.

   All this makes it hard to see why anybody would want to become a chief
magistrate when the end result can be resignation, humiliation, even
incarceration. And while many magistrates might like to think a collegial
approach to management would work, it seems unlikely while some of their peers
are not inclined to take orders from anybody they consider an equal. The problem
is easily fixed. Appoint senior judges from the higher courts and give them
authority to direct magistrates as staff. This would not do much for their
dignity, but at least it would make magistrates manageable.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              16 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Anatomy of a warts and all hero

SOURCE: AP

BYLINE: Martha Waggoner

BODY:

    DAVID Crowe began researching Oskar Schindler with an open mind, wondering
how much of the Academy Award-winning movie about the European industrialist who
saved more than 1000 Jews could possibly be true.

   Early findings shook the historian in Crowe: Schindler spied on
Czechoslovakia for the Germans and aided in the invasion of Poland.

   But he also saved the lives of more than 1000 people during the Holocaust,
spending his personal fortune to feed and house them as World War II raged to an
end.

   "He was the single most righteous gentile during the Holocaust," says Crowe,
the author of Oskar Schindler: The Untold Account of His Life, Wartime
Activities, and the True Story Behind the List.

   Crowe's book is not the only one about Schindler. It has been described,
however, as a definitive account of Schindler's life. It draws on records that
Crowe uncovered, including Czech secret police files that documented Schindler's
work for German military counter-intelligence.

   Crowe's book and Schindler's List -- the 1993 Steven Spielberg movie based on
the 1982 historical novel by Thomas Keneally -- reach the same conclusion.
However, as might be expected, Hollywood simplified the transformation of a man
whose passage from spy to saviour still confounds.

   One of the most memorable scenes in Spielberg's movie occurs when Schindler,
played by Liam Neeson, confers with kindly clerk Itzhak Stern (Ben Kingsley)
about which names to put on a list of Jews to be saved from the Plaszow labor
camp near Krakow, Poland.

   The Nazis had given Schindler permission to take 700 Jewish men and 300 women
from the Krakow plant to a new one in Brunnlitz near his home town in
Czechoslovakia. But in reality, the list was composed while Schindler was behind
bars, accused of bribing the commandant of the labour camp, Amon Goth.

   Also, Stern did not write the list. According to Crowe's book, it was drawn
up by a far less sympathetic individual: a Jew named Marcel Goldberg who worked
for the German non-commissioned officer in charge of transport at the camp. It
was a common practice for the SS to use Jews as administrators at camps.

   Schindler had passed on word of some general groups of people he wanted
included, but Goldberg composed the actual list. "So the question among the Jews
became, 'How do you get on Goldberg's list?"' Crowe says. He believes Goldberg
selected people with pre-war connections and those whom his family knew.

   Eventually, 1000 Jews made their way to Brunnlitz in early 1945. Schindler
and his wife were there and for some reason, another three transport trains full
of Jews showed up also. Crowe believes the cars were sent to Brunnlitz by
mistake.

   Schindler was struggling to feed the Jews already at Brunnlitz and could have
turned the cars around. Instead, he accepted them.

   Some Jews had frozen to death on the way to Brunnlitz and others died there.
Butin the end, 1098 survived, with Schindler spending his personal fortune to
keepthem alive with food purchased onthe black market.

   Schindler easily could have shut down his factory in Krakow and ridden out
the war on the money he made there, Crowe says. "But he orchestrates a situation
where he is able to convince authorities in Berlin to move his factory and move
1000 Jews in the process," he says. "He takes all the money he made in the first
five years of the war to feed and care for his Jews."

   Crowe is not sure what caused Schindler to save "his" Jews. He doubts it was
a single event, as is suggested in Spielberg's film.

   The historian acknowledges that Schindler may have opportunistically hoped to
be able to stay in business after the war. But Crowe also believes he also was
compelled by something simpler and more altruistic: "I think he was just
disgusted by some of the things he saw."

   Sol Urbach, a Schindler Jew whom Crowe interviewed for the book, agrees. "The
brutality of the Germans was more than he bargained for," says Urbach, 79, who
now lives in Florida.

   Urbach last saw his parents, three brothers and two sisters on March 12,
1943, when he left for work at Schindler's factory in Krakow. When he arrived at
work, Urbach recalls, "Oskar Schindler announces we should not go back to the
ghetto. He tells us to stay and do our best to see if we can sleep on the floor
of the factory and stay alive."

   Urbach survived, but his family died in the Nazi liquidation of the Krakow
ghetto the following day.

   After the war ended, Schindler became an alcoholic. In 1957, he abandoned his
wife in Argentina. By the end of his life -- Schindler died in 1974 and is
buried in Jerusalem -- the Jews whom Schindler saved were supporting him.

   "There certainly had to be an element of self-preservation in Oskar's
actions, though it is difficult to determine how much," Crowe says. "In the end,
he sacrificed everything for his Jews and losteverything."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              17 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Strangers when we married

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Lawrie Zion

BODY:

    A new film about a pair of Turkish immigrants living in Germany is
polarising audiences, writes Lawrie Zion

   CINEMA loves marriages of convenience. In Peter Weir's hit 1990 comedy, Green
Card, Gerard Depardieu weds Andie MacDowell so that he can stay in the US and
she can keep her Manhattan garden apartment. In The Wedding Banquet, the 1993
film that made Ang Lee's name, an illegal Chinese immigrant in New York improves
her chances of citizenship after she persuades a gay Taiwanese-American to tie
the knot.

   A new film set in the world of Turkish immigrants in Germany also takes its
cue from two people who enter into a sham marriage, although in this case, there
are no residential permits involved. Nor -- despite its occasional outbursts of
Meet the Fockers-style in-laws humour -- is it a comedy, but that's not for want
of culture-clash absurdities in the story.

   Head-On, the third feature from Turkish-German film-maker Fatih Akin, is
about a pair of misfits who appear to have little in common save for their
shared ethnic background and comparably desperate dispositions.

   Cahit, played by Birol Unel, is a 40ish punk rocker cum bar attendant with
suicidal tendencies. The much younger Sibel (Sibel Kekilli) fakes a suicide
attempt to escape the clutches of her conservative Muslim parents. Now
determined to live her life outside their control, she asks Cahit to save her by
getting married. Somewhat reluctantly, he decides to go along with her plan.

   At first the arrangement seems to work well enough. After exchanging vows
they spend their wedding night apart, and each feels free to pursue separate
sexual agendas while sharing an apartment. But inevitably problems arise, not
the least of which is the discovery that the pair have developed feelings for
each other.

   The 31-year-old Akin, who was born in Hamburg, came up with the idea for
Head-On about a decade ago when a former school friend suggested that they
consider getting married. "She came from a similar background to Sibel," he says
on the phone from London. "And while I think she meant it as a joke, I thought
it had great potential as a comedy."

   As the story evolved, however, the mood of the screenplay darkened
considerably. "I recognised that Birol was no comedian, but I wanted to work
with him," Akin explains.

   There were also broader issues in play. "9/11 happened, and the comedic
element wasn't that interesting any more. My film had nothing to do with 9/11,
but I wrote it straight afterwards and I was very, very angry. I kept thinking
that the world's going down, nobody needs songs anymore, and everything's f---ed
up."

   The resultant grungy tone sets the film apart from some other recent
multicultural movies, like the sentimental yet relatively antiseptic A Touch of
Spice, which examines the fate of the Greek community in Istanbul; and Gurinder
Chadha's feel-good Anglo-Indian hit, Bend it Like Beckham and her
soon-to-be-released Bollywood update of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.

   Akin hasn't seen the 1998 Australian film, Head-On -- which starred Alex
Dimitriades as a stroppy, first-generation Greek youth in Melbourne who tests
the boundaries of the world around him -- but says the two films have much more
in common than a shared name. Both Head-On films present a tough and often bleak
take on diaspora culture.

    Akin's film has not only earned critical praise, it has become a substantial
commercial success. It was the first German film to win the Golden Bear in 18
years at last year's Berlinale, and has been seen by more than 750,000 Germans.

   Yet while agreeing with a recent suggestion in The New York Times that
Head-On signals "a new acceptance of multiculturalism", and that "on screen, at
least, Germans are now ready to meet immigrants they have long walked past on
the street", Akin says the reaction among Germany's 2 million-strong Turkish
community has been far more mixed.

   "About half really appreciated the film and could identify with it; the other
half said, 'We don't like the way we were portrayed, we don't like the way you
show us.' This is really stupid stuff, because I don't think about how to show a
group of people. The film is about two outsiders and it just happens that it is
taking place in my own personal world."

   According to Akin, the film was more enthusiastically received by audiences
in Turkey. "The success of this film there brought me closer to Turkey," he
says. "It's a great thing to walk through Istanbul and everyone likes you
because of that film. It has really changed something in Turkey, and I didn't
expect that."

   Since making Head-On, which was partly shot in Istanbul, Akin has spent much
of his time in Turkey making a documentary called Crossing the Bridge, which
examines Istanbul through its diverse musical culture.

   The experience has led him to reflect on the broader question of Turkey's
complex and problematic relationship with Europe. After being an ardent
supporter of Turkey's attempts to gain acceptance as a fully fledged member of
the European Union, Akin is no longer convinced that such a development would be
in the country's best interest.

   "For Turkish people living abroad like me, it has its advantages." he
concedes. "But a lot of people I spoke to in Istanbul would tell me that they
didn't want to be part of that. Turkey has a new kind of confidence and they don
't want to lose it. And that impressed me a lot."

   While stimulating discussion about questions of cultural identity, Head-On
attracted substantial publicity when the German tabloids discovered that Kekilli
's previous acting experience included several porn movies. Akin admits he was
aware of this at the time he chose her ahead of 350 other contenders for the
role.

   "It wasn't the reason that she got the part," he insists. "I cast her because
she was the best actress. The camera loved her; she had this incredible face
with a nose that reminded me of Isabelle Adjani. Her past helped insofar as she
had no problem being nude in front of the camera. Indeed she was far more
relaxed than the crew."

   Still, the shoot wasn't without its problems. "Sibel and Birol really hated
each other; they were like Tom and Jerry," says Akin, who found he had no choice
but to try to harness their mutual contempt to make the on-screen unease between
the two main characters even more convincing.

   Asked about the murder of Dutch film-maker Theo Van Gogh -- allegedly killed
because of the way his short film, Submission, portrayed violence against women
in Islamic societies -- Akin says he will not be intimidated by negative
reactions to his movie.

   "You cannot kill a film-maker for making a film -- it doesn't work like that,
" says Akin. "I'm not afraid of anything. Why should I be? If you are afraid the
others win."

   Head-On opens in Sydney and Melbourne tomorrow and in Adelaide and Brisbane
later this month.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              18 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; MotoringTable; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: A French match for the WRX - ROADTEST: RENAULT SPORT MEGANE 225

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Neil McDonald

BODY:

    At last, an alternative to the Subaru -- and from an unexpected source,
writes Neil McDonald

   FEW European cars have come close to rattling the almost impenetrable
performance reputation of Subaru's WRX. Until now. And perhaps the most
surprising thing is that it comes not from Germany, but France.

   The somewhat cumbersomely named Renault Sport Megane 225 is just 3kW shy of
the lusty Rex on power and within range on price. It has attitude in spades and
the ability not only to put the Megane name firmly on the map, but also to stir
things up at Subaru.

   The RS differs oh-so-discreetly from the more standard and normally aspirated
1.6-litre and 2.0-litre Meganes. It adopts a subtle sporty air provided by
Renault Sport Technologies, which has a dedicated production line in Dieppe for
these hot hatches (and other high-performance machines, such as the Clio Renault
Sport 2.0).

   Even though a three-door Megane RS is available in Europe, Renault Australia
has wisely opted for the five-door to best illustrate the car's character.

   And it does this well, boasting chunkier bumpers with a gaping shark's mouth
of front air intake, a slightly wider track, sports suspension, dual exhausts,
17-inch alloys and a Brembo brake package.

   Inside the performance theme carries over with deep, comfy leather/cloth
sports seats, aluminium pedals, chunky leather steering wheel and the love-
'em-or-loathe-them bright orange seatbelts.

   Comfort levels are high for front seat occupants. They sit high, but the
seats are supportive and enveloping. The steering wheel is reach and
height-adjustable. Rear seat passengers will find headroom fine, but legroom a
squeeze.

   Standard equipment is on a par with its lesser siblings and includes climate
control, auto dimming interior mirror, cruise control with speed limiter, auto
headlights, rain-sensitive windscreen wipers, trip computer, six airbags,
full-size spare, a host of electronic driver aides and a reassuringly solid body
with a five-star crash rating.

   So what does this upstart French car bring to the performance table that
makes it so threatening? Both it and the Rex are 2.0-litre turbos that are
almost lineball in their power-to-weight ratios, but have distinct characters
and adopt different methods to put the power down.

   Subaru's all-paw action is a given and the racing-style Subbie seats give it
a distinctly racy air, while the front-drive RS is very much a refined
high-speed tourer. It may not boast all-wheel drive like the WRX, but the
Renault has the ability to become as much a household name as the venerable Rex.
In performance and dynamics, it shines.

   It is quite capable of handling all that power through its front wheels, too,
thanks to well-sorted stability and traction control systems. It's deceptively
quick, with a zero to 100km/h time of 6.5 seconds and a top speed of 236km/h.

   However, to look at its performance in isolation is doing the car a
disservice. With 90 per cent of torque available from just 2000rpm, the RS
delivers a muscular message low down in the rev range, with plenty of mid-range
oomph. Although the engine is certainly willing and gearshift sweet, there's
little point revving it right to the 6900rpm redline.

   With such an elastic torque band the car approaches overtaking with an almost
languid disinterest. Even in sixth a mere caress of the accelerator will
dispatch slower cars very quickly. In cruising mode it will also return
commendable economy. We managed 7.5 litres per 100km on a long country route.

   But despite being an involving drive, there are some aspects of the RS that
do mark it down. The Nissan-developed six-speed gearbox is precise but has long
throws, and the car's electric steering still feels remote and could do with
more feel and feedback.

   However, Renault Sport Technologies has done an excellent job with the ride
... and not at the expense of handling. The suspension is distinctly firmer but
loses none of that French suppleness. In winding country roads the Megane shows
almost arrogant disdain for either the terrain or the road surface.

   The front suspension has been extensively reworked to cope with the extra
power, and the traction systems help mask just a hint of torque steer under hard
acceleration, but the grippy Continental SportContact tyres work in conjunction
with the suspension to help exploit the car's full potential.

   The traction control suffers none of the aggressively intrusive intervention
plaguing some performance cars. It can be turned off under 50km/h, but
automatically re-engages above this speed or when it senses a hamfisted driver.
Some of the quirky French aspects will grate -- like the odd speedo increments
designed for European speed limits. The card-key and "start" button procedure is
also tiresome, handbrake quirky and the audio system delivers a good sound but
is fiddly and not intuitive to operate.

   Overall, the Megane exhibits a high level of quality and solidity which has
helped the marque establish an impressive safety reputation in recent years.

   The doors clunk shut and attention to detail is evident with the soft-touch
finish on some of the interior plastics.

   Renault's simple but sensible levers that adjust the front seats highlight
the level of thought in the car's design and packaging, as does the fold-down
rear seat centre armrest, which has two cupholders and space for three pens and
odds and ends. Like many other European hatches, a deadlocking function means,
should a thief break a window, it is impossible to open the doors from the
inside. Kudos for a full-size spare, too.

   As we've said before, some boot space is sacrificed in the name of the Megane
's radical rear styling. The near-vertical rear window and a pronounced rump
still elicit comment and inspired one media outlet to nickname the car's rear
end the J-Lo butt.

   All jokes aside, the French car-maker has spent a small fortune over the past
four years locked in a battle to re-establish its name here against almost
impossible odds. In one swift manoeuvre, the Megane RS has dragged it out of the
trenches and put it on the offensive.

   Buying a car? Visit Motoring's archive at

    www.theaustralian.com.au/motoring

   HOW IT MEASURES UP

   SECOND OPINION

   Jean-Paul Tranquille

   Occupation: Chef

   Location: Melbourne

   New car: Renault Sport Megane 225

   Previous car: Toyota LandCruiser

   Other cars considered: None

   THE name says it all. Jean-Paul is, unsurprisingly, French, which means he
has an abiding love of all things Gallic, including the cars.

   Living in Australia for the past 19 years has left a fondness for his
homeland undiminished, so the Megane RS is a pleasant reminder.

   "I suppose I wanted a little bit of France," he said. "I'm also a Renault boy
since I was born. You could put a Mercedes-Benz in front of me and I wouldn't
take it."

   Like many travellers before him, Jean-Paul's LandCruiser was used to
criss-cross the country. He also owned a BMW touring bike.

   "I'd done all I wanted to do in the LandCruiser," he says. "It was time to
quieten down a bit and buy a car."

   Despite his obvious bias for the French marque, Jean-Paul readily admits that
the brand has not always matched its European peers.

   "Renault was not known for their finish and quality until a few years ago,"
he says. "But the Megane is superb in that regard." He cites its ingenious and
simple fuel cap design, which eliminates the problem that it can be accidently
left off by integrating it into the fuel flap.

   "For me, there's a lot of detail in the performance, design and equipment
that makes it more appealing than a WRX."

   Comment

   Price

   Warranty

   Engine

   Power/Torque

   Transmission

   Seats/Weight

   Fuel tank/type

   Litres/100km

   0-100km/h

   Turning circle

   Airbags/ABS

   Ratings

   Renault Sport

   Megane 225

   Smooth power delivery, quiet cruising, comfy seats and supple suspension make
it a long distance delight. Subtle exterior and neat dual exhausts hide its
blistering intent. Who'd have thought ...  the French could mount a credible
challenge against the WRX?

   $42,990

   3 years/100,000 km

   2.0-litre turbocharged four-cylinder

   165kW/300Nm

   Front-wheel drive, six-speed manual only

   Five/1361kg

   60 litres/premium unleaded

   8.8 combined

   6.5 seconds

   10.35m

   Six/Yes

   Value:

   Performance:

   Overall:

   Subaru WRX

   hatch

   Long the leader in the bang-for-your-bucks terms but now challenged by, of
all people, the French. All-paw action safe and secure. Fantastic fun but an
insurance nightmare for young drivers. Downmarket ...  interior in serious need
of a makeover.

   $40,440

   3 years/unlimited km

   2.0-litre turbocharged four-cylinder

   168kW/300Nm

   All-wheel drive, five-speed manual (four-speed auto $2500)

   Five/1410kg

   60 litres/premium unleaded

   11.5 city, 7.9 highway

   5.8 seconds

   11.0m

   Two/Yes

   Value:    1/2

   Performance:

   Overall:

   Mini

   Cooper S

   The most fun you can have in public without taking your clothes off. Sassy
looks, barking exhaust note and pinsharp responses make this a star car. Supple
ride is not in the Mini vocabulary though. Notchy shift ...  reminds you of
Minis of old.

   $40,700

   2 years/unlimited km

   1.6-litre supercharged four-cylinder

   125kW/220Nm

   Front-wheel drive, six-speed manual only

   Four/1210kg

   50 litres/premium unleaded

   8.6 combined

   7.2 seconds

   10.6m

   Six/Yes

   Value:

   Performance:

   Overall:    1/2

   Holden

   Vectra CDX

   Here because it's close on price -- and something of a sleeper. Responsive
V6, silky auto and roomy but gloomy interior. Good luggage area. Curtain airbags
restricted to CDXi though. Bluff Germanic looks ...  not to everyone's taste.

   $40,990

   3 years/100,000 km

   3.2-litre V6

   155kW/300Nm

   Front-wheel drive, five-speed sequential automatic standard

   Five/1527kg

   61 litres/premium unleaded

   10.4 combined

   N/A

   10.89m

   Four/Yes

   Value:    1/2

   Performance:    1/2

   Overall:    1/2

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              19 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

              February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Country Edition

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Sale likely as Lincraft  goes into receivership

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Katherine Jimenez

BODY:

    Retailing

   THE fate of Lincraft -- one of Australia's biggest and oldest retail fashion
and fabric chains -- was put in the hands of receivers yesterday.

   After four years of attempting to "address commercial issues" with the
company, its biggest creditor, the ANZ bank, has appointed KordaMentha as
receivers and managers.

   Lincraft was founded more than 50 years ago by German refugee Leo Ross, and
today owns 40 stores and employs 1200 people.

   "For the time being, it is business as usual," KordaMentha director Mark
Mentha said.

   He said its first option would be to "sell the business as a going concern".

   It is understood advertisements will be placed in a number of newspapers
tomorrow. A KordaMentha spokesman said it was too early to tell how likely a
sale was, but said "that's the best option, because the other options are pretty
ugly".

   "They will be doing what they can to sell the business".

   Lincraft is jointly owned by the Ross family and its chief executive --
former The Reject Shop director Earle Sacher.

   The first fabric store opened in the Melbourne suburb of Carnegie in 1950
under the name Suzanne Silks.

   In 1980, Suzanne took over its main competitor, Lincraft -- boosting its
network from 13 to 27 stores nationally.

   About 10 years later the business was expanded into home furnishings and the
superstore concept.

   Its turnover is now about $100 million a year.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              20 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                                 The Australian

               February 2, 2005 Wednesday All-round Metro Edition

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Nepalese king sacks government in the name of democracy

SOURCE: AP

BODY:

    KATHMANDU: King Gyanendra yesterday dismissed Nepal's government and
declared a state of emergency, cutting off his Himalayan nation from the rest of
the world as telephone and internet lines were blocked, flights diverted and
civil liberties severely curtailed.

   The move was the second time in three years that the king has taken control
of the tiny south Asian constitutional monarchy, a throwback to the era of
absolute power enjoyed by Nepal's kings before King Birendra, the current king's
elder brother, introduced democracy in 1990.

   King Gyanendra denied his takeover was a coup, although soldiers surrounded
the houses of Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba and other government leaders.

   The king also suspended several provisions of the constitution, including the
freedoms of press, speech and expression, the freedom to assemble peacefully,
the right to privacy, and the right against preventive detention.

   "The move directly violates the constitution and is against democracy," Mr
Deuba said.

   Nepali Congress, the country's largest party, said the king had "pushed the
country toward further complications" and called for a joint protest.

   The king was also criticised by India, which described his move as a "serious
setback" to the cause of democracy in Nepal.

   Armoured vehicles with mounted machine guns were patrolling the streets of
Kathmandu and phone lines in the city were cut. Many flights into Kathmandu were
cancelled amid the uncertainty or turned back by Nepalese authorities, although
the airport remained open.

   Long lines quickly formed at grocery stores and petrol stations, as worried
residents stocked up on supplies.

   "We are so confused. We don't know what is going on or what will happen,"
said Narayan Thapa, a government worker in Kathmandu. "I am worried I can't
reach my family on the phone."

   In a televised address, the king accused the government of failing to conduct
parliamentary elections and being unable to restore peace in the country which
is beset by a Maoist insurgency.

   "A new cabinet will be formed under my leadership," he said, accusing
political parties of plunging the country into crisis. "This will restore peace
and effective democracy in this country within the next three years."

   The monarch, who is also the supreme commander of the 78,000-member Royal
Nepalese Army, said security forces would be given more power to maintain law
and order under the state of emergency. The king also fired Mr Deuba as prime
minister in October 2002, sparking mass street protests demanding the
restoration of an elected government.

   He reinstated Mr Deuba last year with the task of holding parliamentary
elections by March this year and conducting peace talks with the rebels.

   Nepal has been in turmoil since 2001 when Birendra was gunned down in a
palace massacre committed by Birendra's son, the crown prince.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              21 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                  Copyright 2005 BusinessWorld (Philippines)
                          BusinessWorld (Philippines)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 1990 words

HEADLINE: ONSTAGE

BYLINE: Juan Antonio Lanuza

BODY:



   Rolando Villazon. Remember this name. I was privileged to have heard him
during the final rehearsal prior to his debut as Rodolfo in Puccini's La Boheme
at the New York City Opera in 2001. His performance mesmerized me. His voice was
simply beautiful and he sang with feeling and wonderful coloring.

   I would have wanted to see him during one of the performances, but I already
had tickets for my few remaining days in New York City. However, I recommended
my friends Joyce and Eugene Martin to attend the opening night and bought the
tickets for them. I had tickets that evening for Cosi fan tutte. We met after
the opera and they told me that the audience wildly applauded at the end of the
performance. When the final curtain fell, they heard a loud scream of "Yahoo!"
that must have come from him. He had conquered New York. Right after that,
offers poured in for performances all over the world. He has also made a couple
of compact disc recordings.

   Since I mentioned in previous articles that I would be writing about up-
and-coming singers, I felt that Villazon was one you should not miss. If you are
lucky that he is performing in a city you visit in the near future, run and get
a ticket.

   Last Oct. 11, he made his recital debut at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in
NYC. In his review of this recital Matthew Gurewitsch had this to say:

   "At intermission, an adoring (and high-powered) audience was buzzing with the
conviction that Villazon was born to sing recitals. Yes, Yes, Yes - so long as
he does not give up opera."

   After praising his singing in the first part of the program, he said:
"Villazon's singing attack in the Bononcini's ('Per la gloria d'adorarvi'), his
beautifully terraced dynamics, and his deft, vibrant trills transformed an old
chestnut into the most brilliant of fanfares."

   About the second half of the recital he had this to say:

   "The second half brought Spanish salon songs (Manuel m. Ponce's 'Estrellita,'
Maria Grever's 'Te quiero dijiste,' Tata Nacho's 'Intima') a set of Faure (
'Apres un reve') andMassenet ('Elegie' and 'Ouvres tes yeux bleus') and Tosti in
two languages ('Chanson de l'adieu,' 'Aprile,' and 'L'alba separa dalla luce l
'ombra'). As a lead-in to theTosti, Villazon recited an unannounced excerpt from
T. S. Eliot's 'Ash Wednesday.' Even without that hint, every song (even the
German ones) made it plain how serious and how gifted a reader of poetry this
singer is. The words are never just words. He does not so much 'interpret' them
(in the same sense of laying on something sub-textual he has made it his
business to tease out) as make them his own, articulating them without
reservation or striving for effect.

   "...In 'Te quiero dijiste,' Villazon drove the audience wild with a high
pianissimo finish, in a sweet falsetto. He topped that in the next song, ending
on a big high note, then sailing up a step, and then another, with arms
outflung. But he never visited such athletics on material that does not invite
them. In the Faure, his caroling melismas were as poetic as they were
impeccable; and his Massenet encompassed the soul Werther in the space of a few
measures.

   "After the official program - all of it new to Villazon - came three numbers
he has sung, as he said, 'a lot': Cilea's 'Lamento di Federico'; 'No puede ser'
from the zarzuela La Tabernera del Puerto, by Pablo Sorozabal; and 'Amor ti
vieta,' the hit tune from Giodano's otherwise dispensable Fedora.

   "... Villazon remained effortlessly, spellbindingly in character from first
note of each number to last. But he acknowledged the ovations that followed
every selection with an uninhibited joy that was infectious. The listeners could
not bear to let him go, and easily a hundred waited in line to shake his hand."

   Mr. Villazon will be performing this year in the following cities: Los
Angeles, Romeo and Juliet in February; Vienna, Romeo and Juliet in March, Tales
of Hoffmann in May; Munich, Faust and Romeo and Juliet in April and Faust in
July; Barcelona, L'Elisir d'Amore in May and June; London, Rigoletto in July.
Have fun and go hear Rolando Villazon.

   HONG KONG ARTS FESTIVAL

   Martin Lopez of the Sinag Tala Foundation has prepared a two-day package tour
for the Hong Kong Arts Festival that includes attendance to Polish National
Opera's production of Verdi's opera Otello on Feb. 19, and a recital of Turkish
pianist Fazil Say on Feb. 20. For details call Mr. Lopez (Sinag Tala) at
726-1567 or 0918-946-8252. For further information about the different events
listed above, log on to www.hk.artsfestival.org

   WHAT'S ON IN MANILA * Tomorrow the 30th International Music Festival
commences at the Las Pinas Church. (See story in this section - Ed.) * Instituto
Cervantes (2515 Leon Guinto cor. Estrada Sts., Malate, Manila, 526-1482 to 85)
present the first installment of a two-month movie cycle featuring eight movies
on the different levels of love. On Feb. 5, 5 p.m. they will screen El cielo
abierto. This 2004 film directed by Luis Miguel Albaladejo is about finding true
love in difficult situations. The film is in Spanish with English subtitles. *
Repertory Philippines' 2005 Theater Season's second production is Jack
Popplewell's Busy Body. The farce thriller runs from Feb. 11 to Feb. 27.
Repertory has different types of season tickets to fit everyone's budget. For
details call 887-0710. * The Philippine Philharmonic Orchestra's Season
continues on Feb. 4, 8 p.m. at the Main Theater of the Cultural Center of the
Philippines (CCP). Roxas Blvd., Pasay City. Oscar Yatco conducts pianist
Rey-naldo Reyes and the PPO in Felipe's National Anthem, J. Nakpil's March
(arranged for orchestra), M. Adonay's Kyrie and Agnus Dei from Mass, F.
Buencamino Sr.'s Piano Concerto, San Pedro's Malakas at Maganda Overture, R.
Tapales' Mindanao Orchids, R. S. Cornejo's A la Juventud, A Buena-ventura's By
the Hillside and R. S. Cornejo' First Piano Concerto in D. For inquiries call
832-1125 locals 1801 to 1806 or 832-3878, or log on to www.cultural-
center.gov.ph * Pianist Greg Zuniega will give a lecture-concert on Feb. 20, 3
p.m., at the CCP Main Theater. This concert also features soprano Luz Morete-
Martinez and others. Mr. Zuniega will perform compositions by Mozart, Chopin,
Liszt and Filipino composers. The aim of this lecture-concert, presented by the
International visitors Program Alumni foundation- Philippines (IVP-Phils), is to
enhance education and culture in the Philippines. They firmly believe that true
education should focus not only on the mind but also on the spirit and the
heart. They would like to provide the Filipino youth, particularly, students and
their teachers, the singular opportunity to be exposed to the resonance and
wonder of classical music. The IVP Phils is looking for sponsors for this
lecture concert. Sponsorship may be in any of the following manners: donate
P5,000 and you'll send 19 children and a teacher to the concert as well as get a
free Orchestra Center ticket for yourself; donate P15,000 and you send 60
students/teachers to the concert as well as get three Orchestra Center free
tickets for yourself; donate P20,000 and you'll send 80 students/teachers to the
concert as well as get four Orchestra Center free tickets for yourself; donate
P25,000 and you'll send 100 students/teachers to the concert as well as get five
Orchestra Center free tickets for yourself. * Opera on Film at the CCP Dream
Theater (832-1125 local 1704/1706) will screen two productions of Puccini's
Turandot on Feb. 10, 3 and 7 p.m. Free admission. * Tanghalang Pilipino presents
the Filipino adaptation of Jerry Respeto of Piran-dello's Cosi e, se vi pare!
translated as Yun Na Nga (kung yun na nga!). A comic parable about the many
faces of truth. Diana Malahay, Tess Jamias, Edralin Cabrera, Ephraim Avanzado,
Joham de Guzman and Paolo O'Hara star in this comedy of wit and intrigue.
Ongoing until Feb. 6 at the CCP Huseng Batute. Fridays and Saturdays at 8 p.m.,
Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m. For details call 832-3661 or 832-1125 local
1125, 1620 or 1621. * Alliance Francaise (Ondeo Auditorium, 209 N. Garcia St.,
Bel Air II, Makati) will screen La sirene du Mississippi on Feb. 5, 2 p.m. For
details call 895-7441 or 895-7585 or 810-1984. * Ballet Manila's 2004-2005
Season continues on Feb. 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27 at The Aliw Theater, CCP, Roxas
Blvd., Pasay City with the ballets Carmen and Giselle. For tickets, cast and
show times, call 525-5967 or 525-1584. * Dulaang UP's 29th Theater Season
continues with Joy Barrios' Gabriela Silang until Feb. 6 (Wednesdays to Fridays
7 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.). Directed by Tony Mabesa. For
details 926-1349, 920-5301 local 6441 or e-mail dulaangup@yahoo.com. *
University of Santo Tomas Conservatory of Music Concert Series 2004-2005 Faculty
Concerts: Feb. 2 at RH2, recital of soprano Thea Perez and pianist Edgardo
Garcia; Feb. 4 at RH2, recital of guitarist Joseph Mirandilla; Feb. 7 at RH2,
recital of tenor Eugene de los Santos & pianist Mary Anne Espina; Feb. 9 at RH2,
recital featuring flute player Edgardo Silangcruz and pianist Fe Marsha Nicolas;
Feb. 15 at RH2, recital of cellist Renato Lucas. For tickets call Alan Andres of
the UST Conservatory of Music at 535-5915. * Sampung Mga Daliri atbp, Feb. 27,
CCP Main Theater. A concert featuring 10-piano ensembles by alumni, faculty and
students plus all performing groups of the UST Conservatory. For tickets call
Alan Andres of the Marketing Office of the UST Conservatory of Music at 535-5915
or 0918-463- 2598. * UP Playwrights' Theatre will be staging Komedi, a sequence
of three one- act plays featuring two Palanca award-winning pieces by Nick
Pichay: Pangulo Naming Mahal and Psychedelia Apocalypsis (both comedies) and a
commissioned monologue, Ang Maikling Kasaysayan ng Punerarya sa Pilipinas, from
Jan. 26 to Feb. 6 (Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., Wednesdays to
Fridays 7 p.m.) at the Teatro Hermogenes Ylagan, Bulwagang Rizal, UP Diliman,
QC. For details call 926-1349 and 920-5301 local 6441. * Tanghalang Ateneo, the
resident theater company of the Ateneo de Manila Loyola Schools, presents
Bertold Brecht/Kurt Weil's Three Penny Opera from Feb. 3-19 (Wednesdays to
Saturdays 7 p.m., Saturdays, 2 p.m. from Wednesday to Saturday and at 2pm on
Saturday) at the Rizal Mini Theater of Ateneo de Manila University in Loyola
Heights, QC. Directed by Yan Yrastorza Yuzon. For details call 426-6001 local
5056. * Ang Buhay ni TAO, a morality play written and directed by Adrian
Ramirez, will be shown on Feb. 12, 13, 19, 20, 26, 27, 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. at the
San Sebastian College Auditorium, C.M. Recto St., Manila. For details call 324-
4784 or 0921-503-56140. * On Feb. 10 British tenor Russell Watson will perform
at the Philippine International Convention Center at the CCP Complex. Watson,
also known as the "factory boy from Manchester," is one of the crossover
performers who sings opera and pop. A philharmonic orchestra will accompany him.
For tickets contact Ticketworld at 891-9999. * The Sininglahi Polyrepertory, the
resident student theater group of PUP will be staging David Henry Hwang's M
Butterfly on Feb. 7, 4 p.m., and from Feb. 8 to 12, 10:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. at
the Claro M. Recto Hall, PUP Mabini Campus, Sta. Mesa, Manila. Filipino
translation and direction is by Rommel Benedicto. For tickets call Ana
(0921-460-3481) or Jem (0927-915- 5403). * Special Valentine's Concert: Love
Duets, Feb. 8, 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., at the FEU Auditorium in Sampaloc, featuring
tenor Nolyn Cabahug and soprano Rachelle Gerodias assisted by pianist Sabrina
Villaflor in duets from operas, zarzuelas, kundimans and Broadway musicals.
Admission is free.

   (For information/comments the author may be reached at
jalanuza2000@yahoo.com. This column may be found on the Business World web site
before 10:30 p.m. today at www.bworld.com.ph/current/A&L/lanuza.html.)

JOURNAL-CODE: FBWP

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              22 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                  Copyright 2005 BusinessWorld (Philippines)
                          BusinessWorld (Philippines)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: PALACE ORDERS PROBE ON ALLEGED LINK OF OFFICIALS TO ILLEGAL LOGGING

BYLINE: Jeffrey O. Valisno

BODY:



   Malacanang yesterday ordered an investigation to the claims of Sen. Miriam
Defensor Santiago that government officials are involved in illegal logging
operations in the country.

   "Illegal loggers and their cohorts in the government will be investigated,
charged and brought to justice," Press Sec. Ignacio R. Bunye told reporters.

   The Palace made the statement after Mrs. Santiago's privilege speech on
Monday linking a number of local government officials to the continued illegal
logging operations in their areas.

   Mr. Bunye advised the mentioned officials to respond to the allegations, and
explain their side of the issue.

   Meanwhile, Environment Sec. Michael T. Defensor announced plans to file cases
against 10 individuals allegedly involved in illegal logging operations in
General Nakar, Quezon.

   General Nakar was one of the areas severely damaged following a string of
typhoons last year that caused massive landslides and killed hundreds of
residents in Central Luzon and Southern Tagalog.

   Those to be charged are Romeo Roxas, RJ Roxas, Ben Cheng, Allan Tan, and a
certain Engineer Dagul who were allegedly involved in illegal logging and
sawmill operations in Quezon.

   Mr. Defensor also bared the names of Jessie Pua, Totoy Ang, Wilson Ng,
William Marquez, and Wilson Marquez among those who would be charged for
allegedly being "big-time" illegal loggers in Quezon.

   Meanwhile, administrative charges would be filed against five barangay
officials in Pagsanghan, and Infanta Quezon, as well as the all the barangay
captains in the 15 barangays surrounding the Umiray River for not cooperating in
the department's investigation of illegal logging operations in Quezon.

JOURNAL-CODE: FBWP

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              23 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                  Copyright 2005 BusinessWorld (Philippines)
                          BusinessWorld (Philippines)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: P2-MILLION LUMBER SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CEBU

BYLINE: Jun P. Tagalog

BODY:



   CEBU CITY - A total of 12 containers with nearly P2 million worth of igem and
lawaan lumber have been seized here since Monday.

   Four 20-footer containers with 25,000 board feet of lumber worth P500,000
were found yesterday afternoon at Pier 7 in Mandaue City while the eight other
containers, which contained 60,000 board feet of lumber valued at P1.4 million,
were apprehended last Sunday and declared under seizure on Monday.

   The 12 containers were believed to be part of the 20-container shipment of
lumber on board M/V General Ricarte from Cagayan de Oro City. The shipment was
declared as corn grits, cassava meal and yellow corn. Authorities are looking
for eight more containers.

   Richard Abella, chief of the Provincial Environment and Natural Resources
Office Cebu, said they have estimated the value of all 20 containers at P3.5
million.

   Documents for the first eight containers showed four shippers and consignees,
namely, Raffy Rodriguez, Polaris Chua, Jovan Gomez and Rowena Barongot. The four
containers found yesterday were consigned to Jacinto Milling. But Mr. Abella
suspected that these were fictitious names. "We believe the real shipper is a
certain Roger Edma who is a permittee and a lumber dealer in Mindanao," he said.

   Joint teams of the PNP Maritime Group, Bureau of Customs, Task Force Sagip
Kalikasan of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources and the
Philippine Coast Guard apprehended the first eight containers last Sunday at the
National Marine Container Yard at the North Reclamation Area here.

JOURNAL-CODE: FBWP

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              24 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                          Copyright 2005 China Daily
                                  China Daily

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: SMS MARKET FACES SLOWING GROWTH

BODY:



   Investors were unhappy when China Mobile decided to set the price of sending
an SMS message at 0.1 yuan (1.2 US cents) several years ago.

   "I had to avoid meeting investors in our listed firm," recalled Lu Xiangdong,
deputy general manager of China Mobile Communications Corp, the parent of the
listed firm China Mobile (Hong Kong) Ltd.

   "They went after me and asked why we set such a low price?" Lu said the price
of sending SMS in the Chinese mainland was the cheapest in the world. At that
time, sending an SMS message in Hong Kong cost HK$ 2 (25.6 US cents), which
later dropped to HK$ 1 (12.8 US cents).

   "Now I can say some consumers might think our price is still expensive," Lu
said.

   The later runaway success of SMS in China, largely fuelled by the low-prices,
took most investors and even China Mobile by surprise.

   In 2002, about 90 billion short messages were sent via mobile phones in
China.

   That number jumped to 217.7 billion last year, according to the Ministry of
Information Industry (MII).

   "That is an astronomical number. Frankly speaking, our initial idea was just
to replace the beeper with the mobile phone," Lu told the launch ceremony of a
joint SMS business centre last month.

   Among China Mobile's more than 200 million cellular users, 75 per cent send
an average of more than 100 SMS messages every month.

   Slowdown What was also unexpected is that the growth of SMS in the country is
now losing momentum, with an even greater slowdown expected in the years to
come, according to analysts.

   That is pushing operators and mobile service providers to find ways to spur
SMS growth and search for other profit engines.

   The number of SMS messages sent in China last year grew 58.8 per cent
year-on-year, said the MII, but it did not give a comparable figure for 2003.

   But based on the earlier statistics not fully confirmed by the MII, the
number in 2003 stood at 220 billion.

   If it is the case, it represents a fall in SMS growth.

   And the number of SMS messages sent last year largely fell short of many
research houses' forecasts.

   Beijing-based Analysys International had predicted the number of SMS messages
could hit 300 billion.

   And the Chinese Academy of Telecommunications Research under the MII was even
more bullish. The academy had forecast the number could more than double to 550
billion in 2004.

   In total, in addition to those sent via the limited mobility PHS (personal
handy system) networks, the total number of SMS messages in 2006 was forecast to
hit 1.4 trillion.

   But such forecasts are apparently overly optimistic.

   "I believe the SMS market will experience very flat growth this year," said
Wang Yuquan, president of consulting firm Frost&Sullivan (China).

   However, "SMS has become a major communications tool for Chinese people, and
SMS will remain a major profit engine for wireless value-added service
operators," Wang said.

   A recent survey by search firm www.chinasurvey.com.cn found that 61 per cent
of mobile phone users will send greetings via SMS to their relatives and friends
during the upcoming Lunar New Year.

   During the week-long holiday in the previous years, more than 10 billion SMS
messages were sent in China.

   According to Shanghai-based iResearch, China's wireless value-added service
providers are projected to post a revenue of 64 billion yuan (US $ 7.73 billion)
in 2006, up from last year's 38.5 billion yuan (US $ 4.65 billion).

   Wang attributed last year's sluggish SMS growth to a broad crackdown on
irregularities by the government and mobile operators.

   Wireless value-added service providers including NASDAQ-listed Sina Corp,
Sohu.com and NetEase.com have been involved in irregular practices such as
illicit marketing and offering pornographic content prohibited by the
government.

   Some analysts estimated that among the 220 billion SMS messages in 2003,
about 20 billion were spam.

   A crackdown will benefit the long-term development of the SMS market, they
said.

   Wang said that a slow growth is expected in the SMS market in the years to
come as it is becoming increasingly mature.

   "The growth of SMS is apparently slower compared to two years ago," said Cai
Ji, deputy general manager of China United Communications Corp's value-added
service division.

   "We are wondering how long sustained growth will last? Are there any new
growth engines? Will SMS be replaced by another service?" Some analysts believe
the continuing falls in voice communications fees in China are also tarnishing
SMS' attractiveness.

   New engines Despite the expected slowdown in growth, SMS will not be replaced
in the short term by other services as the largest revenue generator in the
wireless value-added service market, said Xu Yu, a researcher with the Chinese
Academy of Telecommunications Research.

   The SMS market continues to offers much potential while service operators
need to make more efforts to tap into customers' needs, the researcher said.

   "Besides chatting, making friends, guessing games, news alerts and
information inquiries via SMS, the personalized services targeting different
user groups in the SMS innovation should be a new direction," she said.

   Both Lu and Wang said so-called "SMS novels" might be a big hit in the SMS
market.

   The service enables mobile phone users to read a novel by receiving an
"episode" in a SMS message every day, costing about 0.3 yuan (3.6 US cents)
each.

   That may sound crazy in other countries. But the service is catching on in
China.

   Lu attributed the craze to China's unique cultural background.

   The success of SMS, for example, is largely a result of it cheapness and the
Chinese people's general shyness compared to westerners' forwardness.

   And many Chinese people like forwarding funny SMS messages to their friends.

   "A lot of writers have already started working on 'SMS novels' which are
gaining increasing popularity," he said.

   Wang said if mobile phone users can select plots and/or endings or even
participate in writing the novels, the SMS market will receive an additional
boost.

   Corporate space Operators and service providers can also profit from the
information services based on SMS provided by insurers, security firms, banks,
airlines, and shopping malls, Wang noted.

   But companies have an even longer term goal in marketing SMS in the corporate
sphere.

   The joint SMS centre, called MOBNIC (Mobile Network Information Centre),
jointly launched on January 18 by China Mobile, China Unicom, the China Mobile
Communication Association and other service providers would enable users to
visit corporations' "SMS-based websites." Users can send a specific number, or
code, via an SMS message, to access the "SMS website" of a business in order to
enjoy interactive information services.

   For example, if a reader wants to get some information such as the
introduction to and circulation of a newspaper, he or she can send the name of
the newspaper or a code to MOBNIC.

   The reader will then receive an automatic response which offers multiple
choices to access classified information such as an introduction and
circulation.

   The reader can choose to get the information he or she wants, which will be
displayed on the mobile phones' screens.

   Organizers of the SMS centre said it will offer businesses, especially small
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with tight budgets, the chance to market
their services to customers.

   A number of companies have reportedly started registering the domains of
their "SMS websites," which could be their "addresses" in the mobile Internet.

   China Unicom officials even billed the launch of the centre as a revolution
in the mobile Internet.

   Jiang Lintao, chief engineer at the Chinese Academy of Telecommunications
Research, forecast the number of registered SMS websites will exceed 1 million
within three years.

   "Its business prospects are quite good," he said.

   "We expect the service to help generate about 10 billion yuan (US $ 1.21
billion) annually for operators and service providers in the wireless
value-added services such as SMS, MMS (multimedia messaging service) and WAP
(wireless application protocol)." Both China Mobile and China Unicom have
pledged full support to the SMS business centre.

   The new service offering may also give a boost to the take-up of so-called
m-commerce, business transactions over mobile phones.

   According to a recent study by US-based Telecom Trends International, the
global number of mobile commerce users will grow to 1.67 billion in 2008
compared to 94.9 million in 2003.

   Revenues generated from mobile commerce are forecast to exceed US $ 554.37
billion in 2008 from US $ 6.86 billion in 2003.

JOURNAL-CODE: FCHD

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              25 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                          Copyright 2005 China Daily
                                  China Daily

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: FACTS AND FLAWS MAKE UP EPIC TV TALES

BODY:



   Liu Che was commonly known as Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, and is one of
the most important rulers in China's more than 2,000-year-long history of feudal
dynasties. His name "wu" means "martial achievements" and he lived in 156-87 BC.
Although Liu was described as "lacking in literary grace" by Mao Zedong
(1893-1976) in his poem "Snow," the sixth emperor of Han Dynasty (206 BC-220 AD)
secured an important place in Chinese history.

   But partly due to the fact that the Han Dynasty was of the remote past, today
people are not very familiar with Liu.

   While there have been many historical TV dramas, many deal with stories of
the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911) and only a few were about the Han Dynasty.

   This has been changed with "Great Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty" (Han Wu Da
Di), a 58-part serial which has just finished airing on China Central Television
(CCTV), making a hit among soap opera fans across the country.

   Cast and rating With an investment of 50 million yuan (US $ 6.02 million),
the drama claims to be "the most expensive historical drama" in China.

   The star-studded big-budget production directed by female director Hu Mei,
deals with the life of the emperor and his 54-year reign.

   The part of Liu Che is shared by four actors, with Chen Baoguo, one of the
country's hottest TV actors, acting as the emperor in his middle age till the
last few years of life.

   All other major roles are also played by famous actors and actresses.

   Jiao Huang, also famous for acting ancient emperors in historical dramas like
Chen, acts as Liu Che's father, Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty.

   Kuei Ya-Lei, famous actress from Taiwan Province, plays the role of Empress
Dou, the grandmother of Liu.

   Besides that, the drama uses more than 1,700 characters in narrating the
royal and social lives in the Han Dynasty as well as that of Han's chief enemy -
the nomadic Xiongnu people (the Huns).

   Well-known household historical figures like Zhang Qian, Wei Qing, Wei Zifu,
Sima Qian, Dongfang Shuo, Li Guang and Su Wu all made their appearance.

   The drama was premiered on January 2. The first week its view rating already
hit 4.49 per cent, and continued to rise after then, making it become talk of
town in many cities.

   CCTV said it is optimistic about the rise of the drama's viewer ratings in
the following weeks, hoping it could break the historical drama record of 19.8
per cent, which was made by "Yongzheng Court" (Yongzheng Wangchao), also
directed by Hu in 1997.

   The TV station, the largest in China, has already reaped a record 120 million
yuan (US $ 14.5 million) by airing TV commercials before and in the middle of
"Emperor Wu." The VCD/DVD copyright was also sold at an "extremely high" price,
CCTV has revealed.

   The director distinguishes "Emperor Wu" with other historical dramas, which
in recent years have mushroomed and been flooding screen.

   Since the end of 1990s, there occurred a new genre of historical dramas.
Instead of basing the storyline on history, the series is a comic recreation of
historical themes, which is called "xi shuo" in Chinese.

   Although the substance of these works is historical characterization and
historical events, they make use of popular narrative and comedy genre formats.

   Faithful account The themes these dramas chose have no direct relationship
with historical facts. History is invented on an assumed unfamiliar stage.

   They not only recall history, but also simulate history.

   Representatives of this genre are "Joking Stories about Emperor Qianlong"
(Xishuo Qianlong), "Princess Huanzhu" (Huanzhu Gege)" "Prime Minister Liu Luoguo
" (Zaixiang Liu Luoguo) and "The Eloquent Ji Shaolan" (Tiechi Tongya Ji
Shaolan).

   Hu Mei claims that her latest work is 10,000 miles away from these "xi shuo"
dramas.

   She said the screenplay is based on "Historical Records" (Shi Ji) and
"History of Han" (Han Shu), works of two renowned Han Dynasty historians Sima
Qian and Ban Gu.

   The intention of the television drama is not only entertaining people, but
also "inspiring people's pride in Chinese history and Chinese nationality by
telling stories strictly based on the respect for history," she said.

   According to Hu, in order to reproduce history more like what it was, the
crew employed many experts on customs.

   Mao Huaiqing, the drama's art director, said he designed costumes for
characters according to photos of pottery figurines from the Han Dynasty.

   Hu and her colleagues' efforts have been praised by historians.

   "The drama makes a good combination of art and history," said Professor Huang
Pumin with the Department of History of Renmin University of China.

   Obvious mistakes While people agree that the basic storyline of the drama
strictly accords with history, they point out that it is not flawless.

   On the contrary, it makes many small mistakes, some of which even ordinary
television viewers who might know a little about history will notice.

   For example, paper had not been invented in the Han Dynasty; people scratched
characters onto slips of bamboo. But in one scene, a box is sealed with paper.

   The drama also "arranges" Han people to use chairs and saddle iron, which
they did not.

   And in some scenes actors and actresses use words, phrases and idioms like
"strategy," "heart-broken" and "policy" that would only appear many centuries
later.

   The most surprising and entertaining error is about Sima Qian, a castrated
man because of a punishment from the imperial court.

   The great ancient historian was sentenced to castration because he offended
the emperor.

   But in the drama, he wears mustache. Hu admitted that it was her neglect. She
said the crew did not realize the problem until shooting the scenes of
castration before other scenes which in the drama would be shown much later.

   They did ask the actor to shave, but it was already too late to correct the
scenes shot before that.

   But such mistakes did not see people lose interest in the drama. Instead,
people appear to be more interested in it.

   More and more people join in to look for faults and it gradually developed
into a big discussion.

   At the same time, people's attention was shifted from minor details to the
more essential conception of history.

   Some claimed the portrayal of Emperor Wu as perfect and flawless.

   Historians said like other emperors in Chinese history, Liu Che also made
many mistakes, some of which were serious.

   But Hu's drama simply chooses to portray him as a great emperor.

   Hu said she welcomed such kind of criticism. The discussion itself showed
people were watching the drama.

   According to Hu, many people read "Historical Records" and "History of Han"
while watching the series. Comparing the differences between history records and
the television drama is fun for them.

   "For me, ratings are not the most important thing. 'Emperor Wu' has incurred
so much attention, that is already a big success," she said.

   Change of focus Some other critics watch the drama from the perspective of
popular culture of contemporary China.

   "'Emperor Wu' shows that the imagination of emperors, which prevails in
recent years, has not dried up. It is still an important part of contemporary
culture that can not be parried," Zhang Yiwu, a professor at Peking University,
wrote in a local newspaper in Beijing.

   Zhang said although "Yongzheng Court" and "Emperor Wu" were directed by the
same director, they refract completely different social psychology from a
different time.

   Emperor Yongzheng of the Qing Dynasty was a controversial figure in history
and difficult to evaluate. "Yongzheng Court" tried to depict him as a reformist
who showed great fortitude under heavy pressure.

   Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, on the other hand, was a universally
recognized victor. "Emperor Wu" speaks highly of his great feats, especially in
driving away the menacing Xiongnu tribes, in a big way. This is very rare in
China where individualism and heroism were absent for thousands of years.

   Zhang said this is the result of the fact that China is thriving and
powerful.

   "Over past years, we Chinese tended to glorify those tragic heroes who showed
great fortitude under great pressure, such as Yue Fei, Wen Tianxiang and Lin
Zexu. The other genre of heroes, like Emperor Wu, who did not suffer many
setbacks and frustrations before success, were never given enough attention," he
said.

   The condition, as Zhang analyzed, was the result of China's miserable destiny
over the past century, and the symbol of the past misery and humiliation of the
Chinese nation.

   Today with rapid social and economic development, China has bidden farewell
to yesterday and is arriving at an age of modernization.

   People's enthrallment with Emperor Wu, Zhang said, is actually their desire
for a brand new century.

   "The new development of Chinese history requires new collective imagination.
This is the key issue that the television drama has highlighted," Zhang said.

JOURNAL-CODE: FCHD

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              26 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                          Copyright 2005 China Daily
                                  China Daily

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: EAST

BODY:



   Mountain storehouse a boon for ginger farmers Maotou Mountain - the name
means a head with fluffy hair - in Xianju, Zhejiang Province, is providing the
perfect natural warehouse for local ginger farmers.

   Its constant temperature means growers can store the root and choose the
commercially best time to sell, reports Today's Morning Post.

   For the past five years, after reaping the ginger, farmers have been storing
the crop in caves until wholesale prices improve.

   The temperature remains around 20 C at all times of year, ensuring the ginger
keeps fresh.

   Following the initial cave storage discovery, more than 200 have been hewn in
the mountain, the smallest of which can store 5,000 kilograms of ginger and the
largest 50,000 kilos.

   City's first female bodyguard turns out A 20-year-old tae kwon do expert has
become the first female bodyguard in the coastal city of Qingdao.

   Born into a simple working family in 1985, as a child Zhang Jing was very
naughty. To bring some discipline into her life and channel her energy she took
up the Korean martial art at the age of 10.

   After finishing junior middle school she announced that she wanted to be a
bodyguard. Supported by her parents she completed her education at a police
training school in Jinan, also Shandong Province.

   Physically able and schooled in policing disciplines, Zhang has entered the
male dominated - in China at any rate - profession of bodyguards, reports the
Peninsula City Daily. Cats and rats terror set to end The days are numbered for
the feral cats and rats which have been stalking the inhabitants of Bird Park in
Fuzhou.

   In the past month, three out of seven peacock chicks have been killed by the
predators whose numbers have soared due to their fecund nature.

   In 2004 alone, 300 plus doves were killed and the claws of many parrots were
bitten by increasingly emboldened cats and rats, no longer content to scavenge
on leftover bird food.

   After attempts to catch them with traps drew a blank, staff at the park are
seeking the help of skilled hunters to solve the problem, reports the Southeast
Express. Wife protests lady doc examining her hubby A wife refused to let a
woman doctor examine her husband's manhood and marched him out of a hospital.

   The couple, in their 50s from Yongyang Town, Lishui County in Jiangsu
Province, visited a local hospital after the husband developed some worrying and
discomforting systems.

   No male doctor was on duty and in spite of attempts by staff to explain there
was nothing untoward in a woman doctor examining her husband, the woman
pigheadedly refused.

   Finally, she forced him to leave untreated, reports the news website
guixinews.com.cn.

   Mole superstition ends love affair A two-year romance ended after a
superstitious mother heard her son's girlfriend had a mole on her shoulder.

   Since childhood the young man, an IT engineer from Nanjing, Jiangsu Province,
had listened to his mother's warnings that moles spell bad luck for a family.

   And when he spotted one on his girlfriend's shoulder after she needed a
tetanus jab, he felt compelled to tell his mum. A short while later he broke off
his relationship with the 23-year-old kindergarten teacher, reports the Nanjing
Morning Post. Cross-dressed mugger comes to grief A mugger thought disguising
himself as a woman would help catch victims unaware and make robbing them
easier.

   But the man surnamed Feng came unstuck when he targeted a woman walking home
late one night in Yinan, Shandong.

   And whereas the victim would have thought twice about resisting a man, she
had no hesitation in fighting off another "woman." Feng was sent packing after
she sank her teeth into his hand and clawed his face.

   Police were alerted and Feng, in his 20s, was arrested in a hospital
emergency department where he went to have his wounds treated.

   Searched, officers found a woman's wig and a dagger in his bag, reports the
Qingdao Morning Post. Tiny flower inspires woman who gave up hope A woman farmer
on the brink of suicide was inspired to go on living by a children's story about
the edelweiss flower. The story, from a science book, tells of the delicate
little flower's struggle to blossom and grow in its harsh Alpine environment.

   Sun Mengjie, 32, felt life was not worth the effort following the break-up of
a long-standing romance and a number of other personal blows two years ago.

   But she chanced upon the story of the edelweiss after taking shelter out of
the rain in a book shop and decided to channel all her thoughts into a book of
her own. Entitled "Snow Lotus" it contains 200,000 Chinese characters,
remarkable in itself as Sun from Jiaozhou, Shandong, only ever had a primary
school education. The book, which took her a year to write, will be put on the
Internet, before being published, the news website qingdaonews.com reports.

JOURNAL-CODE: FCHD

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              27 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                          Copyright 2005 China Daily
                                  China Daily

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: IPR DISPUTES HIGHLIGHT ABSENCE OF LAW

BODY:



   Luo Lianyong is a young salesman in a household appliance mall in eastern
Beijing. He thinks DVD players are one of the least profitable appliances on
sale there.

   On his shelf, two local name-brand models are on sale, both look elegant and
trendy. One sells at 598 yuan (US $ 72) and the other 648 yuan (US $ 78).

   "Most DVD players are in this price range unless they have additional
functions like Dolby or MEPG," he explained. "This is really the bottom price."
The salesman is certainly not the only one who feels DVD players are not a
paying trade. Many manufacturers of the appliance have complained about the high
cost of producing them for such low returns. At the heart of their complaint is
patent fees for key DVD technology.

   The running lawsuit between DVD player patent holders and Chinese
manufacturers recently hit the headlines amid a volley from both sides.

   The case started in September 2004, when Hong Kong Wuxi Multimedia Ltd and
Orient Power (Wuxi) Technology Ltd, both Jiangsu-based companies, sued in the
district court of San Diego, California, the 3C Patent Group comprising the Sony
Corporation, Philips Electronics and Pioneer Corp.

   The plaintiffs claimed the three patent holders fixed prices and unlawfully
linked their patents, in addition to conspiring to monopolize the DVD player
market. All of which, if proven, would be in violation of US law.

   On December 28, the attorney for the original plaintiff filed an amended
complaint which took in Orient Power as the second plaintiff, added LG
Electronics as a defendant and made several new claims.

   "We are seeking a judgment that the 3C patent pool is invalid and are calling
for a monetary refund of all DVD player royalties collected," said Anton Handal,
the plaintiff's attorney from the US law firm Handal & Associates.

   "The activities of the 3C group give them an unfair advantage in price and
delivery of competitive goods. In order to be legal the practice must be fair
and not have a detrimental affect on competition," Handal told China Daily.

   He said the defendants' actions violated the antitrust Sherman Act.

   Philips Electronics, head of the 3C group, refutes the allegations, in
particular it rejects the suggestion that it is acting in a monopolistic manner.

   "The claim that we monopolize the market and drive Chinese producers out of
it is incorrect," Ruud Peters, chief executive officer of Philips' Intellectual
Property and Standards said in an interview with China Daily late last month.

   "If Philips wanted to drive Chinese producers out of the market, why would it
offer patent licences to them?" he said, noting that some 110 Chinese DVD player
makers have been licensed by the 3C patent pool.

   Peters denied a report alleging his company requested European Union and US
customs to block DVD players from China.

   He also said Philips is committed to helping perfect China's intellectual
property rights (IPR) system. Philips last year teamed up with three leading
Chinese universities to form academies to help IPR experts and judges, with a US
$ 100,000 investment in each academy.

   Legal concerns Chinese legal professionals are keeping a close eye on the
lawsuit, believing it will not only matter to the future of many DVD player
manufacturers, but be a valuable lesson to China's fledgling IPR system and
antitrust regulation, currently in the pipeline.

   "It is a pity that our IPR rules are too inadequate to tackle IPR abuse,"
said Li Shunde, a researcher of the IPR Centre of the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences (CASS).

   China began legislating on patent, trademark and copyright two decades ago,
and has yet to develop an anti-monopoly law. This is one reason that the DVD
player makers had no way to sue patent holders at home.

   "It's inappropriate to judge the ongoing lawsuit, but in this case there
might be some points that we can look into for reference for future legislation,
" said Li.

   He said the package sale of patents is open to question.

   "The users can either buy everything in the patent pool or have nothing to
buy. This is one of the symptoms of IPR abuse," he said.

   Li also expressed concern about the occasional practice of some
multinationals combining patents with technical standards. He said although
patents are exclusive and should be paid for if used, standards should be open
and optional.

   "Users of a patent pool often have to accept the specific technical standard
combined with the patents, which will in a way strengthen the patent holder's
clout over technical standards," he said.

   Normally, such a combination is not of concern. But if the patent holder
abuses its edge as a result of such a combination, it may contravene monopoly
regulations, said Li.

   Reasonable patent fees must, of course, be paid. "You must respect
intellectual property rights. In this case, domestic manufacturers did fail to
master core technology and this is the key reason they were in some ways
disadvantaged," he explained.

   "But from a wider perspective, we need sound legislation which enables a
clear judgment to be made on such disputes and ensure the smooth running of
IPR-related business," he added.

   Feeding fish before eating them? DVD player producers are able to decide
whether they want a single licence from the patent pool or separate licences
from each of the companies in the group, said Ruud Peters.

   Although Philips encourages companies to take licences from the pool, which
are more convenient for both applicants and patent holders, it does not force
them to do so, he insists.

   Anton Handal, however, argues that in practice there is no mechanism for
Chinese companies to apply for separate patents.

   Since 2002, foreign firms holding patents of relevant technologies, including
the 3C Alliance led by Philips, the 6C Alliance (Panasonic, JVC, Hitachi,
Toshiba, Mitsubishi Electric, and Time Warner), and 1C (French Thompson), began
to charge Chinese DVD machine makers patent fees for using core technologies in
their exported DVD machines. Since 2003, they have been levying patent fees on
DVD players sold within China.

   Patent fees levied on Chinese DVD player manufacturers are around US $ 20 per
unit, representing nearly 20 to 30 per cent of production costs.

   Prices are constantly down given the fierce competition. Some household
appliance stores even give away DVD players to customers buying major
appliances.

   The number of domestic DVD player makers more than halved after 2003, with
many of them going out of business or switching to making other electronic
products in order to break even.

   But the difficulties and losses suffered by these manufacturers is as a
result of market competition and is not the fault of Philips' patent policy,
according to Peters.

   In the eyes of many DVD player manufacturers, however, the patent fee may not
only be about IPR protection. China's DVD player industry, begun in the mid
1990s, boomed as more and more entrepreneurs profited from making the trendy
appliance. But patent holders did not ask for money until three years ago when
the manufacturers matured. This tactic is dubbed by some as "feeding a fish
before eating it." Some also challenged the pricing methodology of the patent
pool.

   "One problem as I see it is the fixed patent fee rate," said Li Shunde of the
CASS. "It's all right to charge US $ 20 for the patent when the completed
product sells at US $ 200, but when the price is only a fraction of that, it is
not reasonable to maintain the patent fee at the same level." He also questioned
the practice by DVD patent holders of charging manufacturers of complete
products rather than parts makers.

   "Makers of key parts of DVD players use the patents first, but the patent
holders did not charge them and instead charge completed products for the whole
bill, and this is a problem," said Li.

   In a statement issued on January 20 about the ongoing DVD lawsuit, Philips
argued that US patent law "neither prescribes any specific maximum level of
royalties to be paid for the use of patents, nor prescribes that royalties
should be calculated as a percentage of the product price." Example to
legislators The plaintiff's attorney Handal remains buoyant about the final
outcome of the lawsuit.

   "My confidence comes from having dealt with the 3C group for quite some time.
I have personally observed conduct that is anti-competitive," he says.

   "In addition, I have seen how they have failed to comply with their
obligations as set forth in their Business Review letter to the (US) Department
of Justice." Handal conceded the time and effort required in prosecuting a case
of this magnitude are unfavourable factors, but said the plaintiffs have the
resolve and are prepared to carry the case to its conclusion given its
importance to manufacturers and consumers alike.

   "Although DVD technology is nearing its end, we hope the lessons that are
learnt in this action will dictate the way patent poolings are managed in the
future." His words have struck a chord with many.

   "I'm not in a position to comment on the patent fee disputes in this case,
but I think there is one thing many people have to contemplate: How can our
legal system cope with such cases?" said Huang Yong, professor of law at the
University of International Business and Economics.

   He said future legislation on monopolies needs to stipulate clear criteria of
activities deemed anti-competitive, and the ongoing DVD suit could be an example
for legislators to study.

JOURNAL-CODE: FCHD

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              28 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                          Copyright 2005 China Daily
                                  China Daily

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: JURY SELECTION STARTS IN JACKSON MOLESTATION CASE

BODY:



   After months of delays and intense pretrial publicity, Michael Jackson took
his seat in court on Monday as the task of selecting a jury began in the child
molestation case that has put his career, reputation and freedom at risk.

   By the end of the first day, more than 300 people had been asked whether they
would be able to spend up to six months on the jury. Finding a panel to hear the
case is expected to take up to a month.

   More than 175 potential jurors said they would serve, while about 140 said it
would be an ordeal and asked to be excused.

   The 46-year-old self-described "King of Pop," who said on Sunday that he
would be "acquitted and vindicated," is accused of molesting a teenage boy -
then 13, now 15 who lived at Jackson's fairy tale-like Neverland ranch in the
hills above the central California town of Santa Maria - and plying him with
alcohol.

   The potential jurors were brought into Santa Barbara Superior Court Judge
Rodney Melville's courtroom about 150 at a time, starting about an hour after
Jackson sat down with his lawyers at the defence table.

   The superstar was dressed totally in white - a symbol of innocence - with a
jewel-encrusted belt and gold braided arm band.

   In good spirits He looked upbeat, smiled and joked with his lawyers, shook
hands with the court clerk and occasionally dabbed at the pink lipstick he was
wearing with a tissue. When jurors were being questioned, Jackson sat completely
still.

   Some did not want to serve the anticipated six months.

   "Your honour, I am too old to serve. I am 75 years old," one woman said.

   "You do not look a day over 60," the judge responded.

   Others asked to be excused for reasons ranging from financial hardship to the
fact that they were their families' sole breadwinners. Legal experts said the
prospective jurors appeared to be predominately white, with far smaller numbers
of blacks and Hispanics.

   Judge Melville made notes and reserved decision about who will have to return
on February 7 to form the jury pool. The names of the jurors were not made
public.

   About 200 fans, kept behind two rows of fences, cheered Jackson as he arrived
at the courthouse, surrounded by bodyguards, including one who held a large
black umbrella over him to shield him from the sun.

   Some of Jackson's supporters camped out overnight at the courthouse, despite
chilly weather and fences designed to keep them well away from the performer.

   World media represented Several hundred fans from around the world pressed up
against a chain-link fence and shouted words of encouragement, holding up signs
that read "France Supports MJ" and "We believe you Michael." Jackson smiled and
made a V-for-victory sign.

   He is accused of sexually molesting the boy, while the youth and his family
lived at Neverland, charges that Jackson has strongly denied.

   Jackson's family offered him support. His mother, Katherine, told CBS's "The
Early Show" on Monday "I know my son and this is ridiculous." The trial of
Jackson, one of the world's best-known entertainers, has drawn worldwide media
attention.

   More than 1,000 journalists from Australia, Britain, France, Germany, Japan,
Mexico and the United States have registered to cover the trial.

   Although Jackson's famed Neverland compound is in the hills above Santa
Maria, the "King of Pop" is rarely seen in the working-class town of 80,000.

   A grand jury handed down a 10-count indictment against Jackson in April,
charging him with lewd acts on a child under the age of 14 and conspiring to
commit the crimes of abduction, false imprisonment and extortion.

   The indictment stems from accusations made by a now 15-year-old boy and
recovering cancer patient seen holding hands with Jackson in a controversial
documentary that aired on ABC and British television in February 2003.

   Leaks thwart secrecy Jackson on Sunday released a videotaped statement saying
that leaks to the media about grand jury testimony in the case contained
information that was "disgusting and false" and predicted victory at trial.

   "I love my community and I have great faith in our justice system," Jackson
said, "Please keep an open mind and let me have my day in court. I deserve a
fair trial like every other American citizen. I will be acquitted and vindicated
when the truth is told." Jackson said he helps thousands of children and allowed
the accuser into his Neverland Ranch only after the boy's family said he was
battling cancer and needed help.

   "I never intend to place myself in so vulnerable a position ever again," said
Jackson, who wore a blue shirt and looked directly into the camera.

   Graphic details of grand jury testimony were leaked earlier this month to the
smokinggun.com and ABC News despite the efforts of Superior Court Judge Rodney
S. Melville to keep the 1,900 page transcript secret.

   The source of the leaks remains the subject of speculation. The prosecution
has not commented on the leaks, but Santa Barbara County sheriff's investigators
have denied they were responsible.

   Melville said on Friday he will release the grand jury transcripts and other
sealed material once a jury is seated.

   Michael Jackson's child molestation trial makes participants and observers
sharply divided over whether there has been too much secrecy imposed by the
judge - or not enough secrecy because of media leaks.

   Advocates for press access said it would have been better to have an official
release so the public would know the source and accuracy of the information.

   University of Santa Clara law professor Gerald Uelman said courts have
safeguards against publicity influencing potential jurors, such as questioning
them intensely about what they have heard.

   He said the leaks might not have all that much effect.

JOURNAL-CODE: FCHD

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              29 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Retailers caught in the Act

BYLINE: Renee Viellaris

BODY:

    WHAT'S in a name? A $7500 fine, retailers have found.

   Westfield Garden City traders who advertised their location as Mount Gravatt
instead of Upper Mount Gravatt have fallen foul of an obscure State Government
Act -- and it could cost them thousands.

   The traders face overhauling promotional and business material because the
Place Names Act 1994 states it is illegal for businesses to use the wrong suburb
name in advertising.

   The Natural Resources Department earlier this month warned Big W, Harvey
Norman, Rebel Sport, Subway and Coles they faced a $7500 fine for flouting the
law.

   Garden City, on Brisbane's southside, is less than 2km from the Mount Gravatt
border, but the Government says the Act is in place for good reason -- exact
addresses are crucial for emergency services.

   An elderly consumer picked up on the mistake and forwarded business receipts,
the misleading advertising and a 13-page letter to Police Minister Judy Spence,
who passed it to Natural Resources.

   Natural Resources Minister Stephen Robertson said his department had acted on
the complaint.

   "My department advised these retailers about the requirements of the law and
the businesses are now taking positive steps to rectify the situation," he said,
adding traders had been given an unspecified amnesty period to comply.

   A Westfield spokeswoman said she could not speak for Garden City traders.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              30 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1395 words

BODY:

    Mail to: The Courier-Mail GPO Box 130 Brisbane 4001, fax 07 3666 6690, or
e-mail cmletters@qnp.newsltd.com.au

   Still armed,

   dangerous

   DEFEATING the enemy in the field is only the start to winning a war. Ensuring
the enemy cannot continue to function in a belligerent way is the next essential
step. Many lives have been needlessly lost in Iraq and democracy plans disrupted
by the US-led coalition's wishy-washy strategy that permitted known pockets of
resistance to retain high-impact weapons.

   I have no doubt that if the British or Australians had been in control in
Iraq, the situation would be much more stable. The Americans know how to win
wars with the use of their military might. Unfortunately, as history continues
to show, they have no idea how to win the peace.-- Raymond Clarke, Taigum.

   February 1

    Candid

   comment

   AS A former professional photographer, it worries me that the actions of a
small percentage of the camera-using public may lead to draconian measures being
taken against all photographers. The State Government should consult widely and
meet with professional photographers' associations before taking action.

   Great photographers, such as Henri Cartier-Bresson of France, who was among
the first to take candid 35mm pictures of ordinary people going about their
business, have left a priceless legacy of historical images. World-renowned
magazines such as National Geographic have carried on this tradition and
introduced us to the everyday lives of people worldwide through the medium of
photography.

   If governments encourage a mind-set whereby all those taking photographs in
public places are to suffer for the actions of a few sick people, our historical
record and social betterment will be the worse for it.-- Kim Dodsworth, Nobby
Beach.

   February 1

   Ipswich, hard knocks and prosperity

   I REFER to the report on the surveys commissioned by Ipswich City Council
about people's impressions of the city (C-M, Jan 31).

   Criticisms of Ipswich highlight how incredibly ill-informed some people are.
Ipswich is not flat, and its history is one of great prosperity and hard knocks.
It is recently resurgent and the River Heart project will transform and
revitalise its central business district.

   Ipswich offers wonderful lifestyle opportunities that are no longer
attainable for many in Brisbane because of spiralling land prices. The critics
can rant and rave but Ipswich remains the great southeast's best-kept secret. --
Alex Hertz, Brookfield.

   February 1

     *  I WANT to comment on Ipswich's "identity crisis". I was brought up in
Ipswich and I am 30 years old. We had worse times with crime when I was younger.
We felt unsafe to go outside. My suburb had a bad name at that time. Now, it has
improved and families in the neighbourhood go for walks and are not scared.

   Ipswich's centre does need some improvement. There is no real reason to go to
the mall in the CBD. It seems like a ghost town. Yes, it has cinemas but it
needs more than that. This is why the council needs to do something. High-rises
would ruin Ipswich. We don't need to be the same as Brisbane.

   Let's see the council fill up all the empty shops in the mall and then people
might come in to the CBD.-- Mel Mayfield, dmay8418@

   yahoo.com.au

   January 31

   Joining councils comes at cost

   THE amalgamation of local governments may result in increased efficiency on
paper, as pointed out by Bill Thompson (Letters, Jan 28), but it comes at a cost
to democracy and accountability.

   The forced amalgamation of 20 councils to form the City of Greater Brisbane
in 1925 may have been one of the lowest points in Brisbane's history.

   Big councils are notorious breeding grounds for remote and unresponsive
bureaucracies. The sheer size of Brisbane City Council's offices on George St is
testimony to this fact.

    So, too, is the insanity of a councillor from Deagon Ward being expected to
know about drainage problems in Inala, or Doboy Ward's representative having to
vote about improving bus services to Bridgeman Downs.

    Each Brisbane councillor represents about 35,000 residents -- almost as many
as a state MP, resulting in councillors being more inaccessible to citizens than
would be the case in a smaller, Sydney-style municipal council.

   Local government should be just that -- an institution founded by local
people to advance the common good in their local area. Regional and metropolitan
issues such as public transport and water supply can be dealt with adequately by
the State Government, as occurs in NSW and Victoria, or by a county-style body,
such as the Greater London Authority.-- Bradley Torr, Everton Hills.

   January 30

   More to R&D spending

   THE figures in the article "Brains trust starved of funds" (C-M, Jan 28) don
't refer to all money spent on research and development.

    They refer to R&D spending which companies have claimed for taxation
purposes.

   Even so, contrary to the headline, the figures show that Queensland firms are
significantly increasing their research spending. Since 2000-01, they have
increased R&D spending in nominal dollar terms by 35 per cent, while the
spending of those in Victoria (1.7 per cent) and NSW (0.7 per cent) has stayed
almost the same.

   Queensland's $229 million increase over this time is more than the total
increase by the other states combined. It is clear which state is developing as
the smartest.

   This is even more striking when it is recognised that R&D activities being
done in Queensland might be listed on tax returns lodged from companies' head
offices in NSW or Victoria and credited to those states.

    It also is important to look at the figures in relation to other data. The
Queensland Government injects $66.48 per capita into R&D, Victoria only $40.30
and NSW $34.41.-- Tony McGrady, State Development and Innovation Minister,
Brisbane.

   January 31

   Finding

   a safe

   place

   THERE is an urgent need to provide convicted pedophiles who have served their
time with a safe place to live, free from the harassment of the vigilante mob.

   Parents also need to be assured that their children are safe from the
possibility of pedophiles re-offending.

    It is hard to find a place to live in the city that is not within 500m of a
school or daycare centre, but even-handed social justice needs to prevail.--
Colin Williams, Fig Tree Pocket.

   February 1

   Press on

   privacy

   LIKE many media commentators, Madonna King's normally reliable common sense
seems to desert her when analysing her colleagues critically (Perspectives, Feb
1).

    To endorse the foot-in-the-door antics of aggressive photographers, arguing
that Nicole Kidman owes her career to these muckrakers and not her thespian
skills, probably goes a long way to explaining why journalists consistently rate
high in the public loathing stakes.

   Newspaper readers are not stupid. The public can recognise hypocrisy when
they see it. Media commentators, owners and publishers are the first to run when
a camera gets pointed at them. (Ask Ray Martin about his encounter with John
Safran.)

    Acting is Kidman's job, not being on public display 24 hours a day.-- David
Burley, Wilston.

   February 1

   Skills for

   long term

   THE article on the shortage of skilled workers filled me with a feeling of
deja vu (C-M, Jan 31). Having served an apprenticeship and worked in engineering
for a number of years in England, I emigrated to Australia 30 years ago.

   On arriving here, I was astonished at the negative attitude of employers to
providing apprenticeships to young people. Most companies wanted to employ
skilled tradesmen but were unwilling to shoulder the costs involved in training.

   After 30 years, nothing has changed. In Europe, the general approach to
skilled tradesmen is one of long-term investment but, in Australia, it is more
for short-term profit.

   If businesses in this country don't change this mind-set, we will be reading
similar articles 30 years from now.-- Trevor Lord, Bracken Ridge.

   January 31

   Letters and email must be dated, carry the full address of the writer and a
daytime telephone number for verification. Letters should be concise, topical,
not more than 300 words and are submitted  on condition that Queensland
Newspapers,as publisher of The Courier-Mail, may edit and has the right to, and
license third parties to, reproduce in electronic form and communicate these
letters.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              31 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: LORD WINDBAG

BYLINE: QUENTIN LETTS

BODY:

    WITH his trademark roll of the shoulders, winking like a street walker with
myxomatosis, one of the most grasping losers of British politics this week took
his seat in the House of Lords.

    Neil Kinnock, a man about whom voters made their feelings entirely plain, is
back at the top table of Westminster.

    He looked distinctly chuffed with himself as he was introduced to
Westminster's Upper House at a ceremony on Monday. The one-time hard-Left boyo
of the Valleys arrived in ermine to hear an orotund statement from the monarch.

    This was read out by a clerk, who hailed the grinning gingernut as 'our
right trusty and wellbeloved Neil Gordon Kinnock'. It should be pointed out that
this is the customary form for such ceremonies. The Queen did not mean it
personally.

    The newcomer was showered with 'the state, degree, style, dignity and honour
of Baron Kinnock of Bedwellty, to have and to hold unto him for his life, to
possess a seat, name and voice in the counsels of our kingdom, enjoy and use the
rights, privileges and preeminences' of his new position.

    There are other adjectives that come to mind to describe the loser of the
1987 and 1992 General Elections. The most common of these is 'windy' -- indeed,
he seems bound to become known as Lord Windbag. But there's more.

    For starters, how about: ineffective, indulged, greedy, vain, dim, weak and
timid?

    For here, despite all that fancy lingo at the Lords, is the product of an
arrogant political elite, a man who, as EC Commissioner, had a chance to tackle
Brussels corruption but fluffed it; a man who since the early 1990s has done
barely anything to deserve public esteem, and everything to earn our rich
contempt.

    It is not unreasonable to suggest that former Leaders of the Opposition
should sit in the Upper House.

    And surely Kinnock did the country a good turn by getting rid of Left-wing
loonies from the Labour Party in the 1980s? Without him, arguably, Tony Blair
could never have led the Centre-Left to power.

    Surely, too, Kinnock's fine oratory qualifies him for peerage? Kinnock party
conference speeches could make the hairs on your neck stand to attention.

    At any other time, maybe Neil Kinnock would be a right and proper member of
our Parliament. But his recent conduct in Brussels raises grave doubts about his
calibre.

    Furthermore, his own past contempt for the Lords, which he has now managed
so easily to swallow, must place questions about his principles. For is this the
same Neil Kinnock who once hungrily traduced hereditary peers as nothing more
than 'descendants of brigands, muggers, bribers and gangsters'?

    Strong views, you say, but valid, given that the hereditaries were not
elected.

    Did anyone elect Kinnock to the Lords this week? He has entered a Lords
which is being packed with cronies by Tony Blair. It is no better than the Lords
which Kinnock once attacked with gusto for its lack of democratic validity.

    How can anyone change their mind so comprehensively on such a fundamental
issue? Can we, in future, ever believe a word he says?

    With rumours that he will be made Leader of the Lords should Labour win the
next election, we must ask why Kinnock has bothered to join the Lords now. And
this is where his recent execrable career record must fall under our gaze.

    At the European Commission (a graveyard for failed national politicians), he
was placed in charge of an anti- corruption drive. Despite Kinnock's
muchtrumpeted moves against fraud, however, the problem actually doubled to GBP
700 million of waste a year after his appointment, according to the National
Audit Office.

    This was not just one or two major projects that went wrong. Some 10,000
cases of corruption were uncovered. The Commission and its tributary gutters
were awash with bad practice and plain old thieving.

    These figures about the waste of a foreign bureaucracy can sometimes seem
other-worldly.

    But just think what could have been done with this money. Think of the Third
World aid that could have been bought or even the taxes that you and I could
have kept for our own uses instead of wasting on the European project.

    There was something distinctly sinister about the way that, under Kinnock, a
brave woman called Marta Andreasen was treated. Mrs Andreasen was the EC's chief
accountant who spoke out about the abuses she had witnessed and the 'dangerous
failings' in the EU's GBP 63billion annual budget.

    Sleazebuster Kinnock should have welcomed her information and hailed her as
an honest whistleblower. Did he heck! She was sacked for 'breach of trust'.

    Was there no 'breach of trust' by the unelected, unaccountable Kinnock? The
Andreasen affair was one of the worst scandals of political arrogance and
bullying to have been committed in Brussels, and it had Kinnock's fingerprints
all over it.

    It is amazing that there is even a slight prospect of this man being
appointed to a postelection Cabinet by Tony Blair.

    Mrs Andreasen went home with no pay-off, but Europe was kinder to the
Kinnock family. Neil was paid more than GBP 140,000 a year (taxed? We'd rather
not, thank you) plus hot and cold running limousines, a GBP 24,000-ayear
cleaning allowance for his paid-for townhouse and a GBP 7,000 entertaining
budget which secured him seats at Belgium's best restaurants.

    He was offered GBP 270,000 in 'transitional' payments for the first three
years of his retirement, and when he reaches 65 he will receive an extra whack
-- a Brussels pension of GBP 63,900 a year from a pot worth more than GBP
2million.

    Meanwhile his son, Stephen, and his daughter-in-law, Helle, both work on
'the Brussels merry-go-round', as it has been called. And Glenys Kinnock, or
Lady Kinnock as she has now become, is a European MP with all the perks that
entails (e.g. GBP 55,000 salary and up to GBP 100,000 a year in expenses).

    According to one estimate, the Kinnock family was on up to GBP 500,000 a
year from various wages and benefits in Brussels.

    And now Lord K, like a combine harvester approaching a ripe field of wheat,
is about to have the run of Westminster, with its daily allowances, its parking
perks, the self-glory of a platform, the foreign trips, not to mention all the
other little life-enhancers the political elite has in recent years provided for
itself.

    He has also been put in charge of the British Council, a post which will
offer yet more opportunities for strut and pomp.

    One of his sponsors on Monday, as he glad-handed his way out of the Lords
Chamber, was his old confidante Jan Royall -- herself now a peer.

    The two of them resembled a couple of Lottery winners in a Cardiff
supermarket, unable to believe their good fortune.

    There was a time when the possibility of such an unsatisfactory man rising
so far in British public life would have been beyond any odds.

    Sadly, the fall and rise of Neil Kinnock is a parable for our times, a
telling example of how talent and moral rigour are but nothing in today's
politics compared with the shameless swagger of a serial failure.


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              32 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: PRESSURE GROWS ON CHERIE OVER HER 'CHARITY' TRIP

BYLINE: GORDON RAYNER

BODY:

    CHERIE BLAIR was under mounting pressure last night to reveal her fee for
her charity speaking tour of Australia after it was claimed she will receive
more than GBP 100,000.

    Mrs Blair, whose payment could outstrip the money raised for the charity
itself, has been criticised both here and Down Under for 'cashing in' on her
status as the Prime Minister's wife.

    Liberal Democrat frontbench MP Norman Baker called the reported amount '
scandalous' while one of Australia's leading fundraisers said it was 'outrageous
'.

    So far Downing Street has refused to discuss the tour - which starts on
Monday - saying it is a 'private matter'.

    Yet the Daily Mail has learned that Mrs Blair will be accompanied on her
first engagement, in Auckland, by New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, and
her final speech in Sydney will be hosted by New South Wales premier Bob Carr.

    And while Mrs Blair has always used her maiden name of Booth in her
professional capacity as a barrister, she is billed as 'Cherie Blair, wife of
the British Prime Minister' in publicity material for the tour.

    The move is further undermining claims that she is going as a 'private
citizen'.

    A leaked 'draft budget' for the tour lists Mrs Blair's fee as GBP 102,600,
while controversial PR man Max Markson, who is organising the dinners, will
charge GBP 112,800 through his company Markson Sparks.

    Meanwhile, the Children's Cancer Institute of Australia, for which the
dinners are being held, is guaranteed only GBP 99,900 - about a fifth of the
overall budget.

    Mr Markson disputes the figures, saying the charity will get closer to GBP
200,000, while refusing to discuss Mrs Blair's fee for 'contractual' reasons.

    But Mr Baker said: 'For Cherie Blair, it appears that charity begins at
home.

    'It devalues the whole point of charity work if those who purport to be
raising money for a good cause are pocketing a huge amount. I hope she will
examine her conscience and return her fee to the charity.'

    Sources close to No.10, however, said Mrs Blair had only agreed to the tour
because of the financial benefits.

    As well as receiving a fee, she will reportedly be flown to and from
Australia for free by Gulf Air, while Jaguar, the tour's official sponsor, is
thought to be providing courtesy cars.

    Mr Markson would not comment on who was paying Mrs Blair's hotel bills.

    Publicity material advertises a GBP 4,100 VIP table for ten to ensure
pre-dinner cocktails with Mrs Blair and a photo opportunity. Cheaper tickets
cost GBP 78 per person.

    Elizabeth Cham, national director of the charity umbrella group Philanthropy
Australia, said: ' Nobody expects her to slum it but this amount of money is
outrageous.

    'A modest payment to cover her expenses would have been more appropriate.'

    Lisa Tait, of the Australian Consumers' Association, said: 'People have an
expectation that funds from events will flow to the charity involved.'

    And a spokesman for the Cancer Council of Australia said: 'Celebrities
normally do this sort of thing out of goodwill. We don't pay them for it.'

    Mrs Blair is ostensibly promoting the cancer charity, but the publicity
material also makes it clear she will be plugging her new book.

    A flyer for one dinner says: 'Mrs Blair will also focus on her collaboration
with social historian Cate Haste in launching the book The Goldfish Bowl:
Married to the Prime Minister.'

    Mrs Blair will visit Auckland on Monday to speak at a separately- organised
dinner in aid of a children's charity. It is not known whether she will be paid
for that engagement.

    She will then fly to Australia and speak in Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Sydney on successive nights, finishing on Saturday.

    Mr Markson, author of a book called Show Me The

    Money!, has been criticised before over speakers' fees - and in 2001 was
named in the New South Wales parliament in relation to one dispute.

    The Sydney Children's Hospital Foundation said he owed it GBP 34,000 after a
dinner, and he later paid out GBP 19,250 to avoid being sued.

    Mr Markson claimed that the figures quoted for Mrs Blair's tour were
'inaccurate'.

    He said: 'The real fee for my agency, after salaries and expenses, is closer
to GBP 40,000.

    'The document these figures are taken from is falsified and embarrassingly
wrong.

    'Every charity running a major event is going to need help with advertising
and marketing, so it's normal that they pay a certain percentage of the profits
for that.'

    A spokesman for the Children's Cancer Institute of Australia said: 'Nobody
is doing anything wrong.

    'There are always going to be associated costs in a visit like this.'

    g.rayner@dailymail.co.uk


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              33 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: FACING JAIL, THE SOCCER STAR WHO COST GBP 2M AT 15

BYLINE: BETH HALE

BODY:

    FOOTBALLER Jermaine Pennant was warned yesterday that he faces a prison
sentence after being caught drink driving while already banned.

    The GBP 10,000-a-week Arsenal midfielder was two and half times the limit
when he smashed a GBP 70,000 Mercedes into a lamppost at 6am after a night out.

    Pennant, 22, continued into a car park with the lamp-post still under the
front wheels of the blue 500 SL, which is believed to belong to Spurs player
Anthony Gardner, before finally stopping.

    Confronted by police in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, he gave a false name.

    Then he claimed he was travelling from London to Bristol and had lost
control after trying to operate the car's satellite navigation system.

    The trouble-plagued player - who became soccer's most expensive youngster at
15 when Arsenal paid Notts County GBP 2million for him - was banned for
drink-driving last February and was not due to get his licence back until later
this month.

    Facing magistrates in Aylesbury yesterday, Pennant admitted driving while
disqualified, drink driving, and driving with no insurance. The offences
happened early on Sunday January 23.

    The court heard that Pennant's eyes were glazed and his speech was slurred
when he got out of the Mercedes. Initially he gave a false name - believed to be
that of teammate and England star Ashley Cole - but later identified himself.

    The player, from Barnet, North London, gave a breath test which showed 85mg
of alcohol in 100ml of breath. The legal limit is 35mg.

    During interview Pennant said the car's satellite navigation system had sent
him via Aylesbury.

    Rachel Sheppard, prosecuting, said: 'He admitted giving a false name but
said he was scared.'

    Adjourning sentence for reports, chairman of the bench John Jakobi warned
Pennant he faced jail. He said: 'It is your second drink-driving case within one
year and it is a very high reading. You gave a false name at the scene. The case
is so serious we cannot rule out a custodial sentence.'

    Pennant faces a maximum six-month jail sentence and a mandatory three year
driving ban.

    After a promising start as a teenager, Pennant has had a troubled time.
During a training camp for England's under-21 qualifiers in 2003 he broke a
curfew and arrived at his hotel at breakfast time.

    Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger removed his peg from the dressing room and
sent him on loan to Leeds. While at Leeds he was arrested and questioned over an
alleged rape. He denied any involvement and was released without charge. When he
returned to Arsenal it was said to be his last chance. He has made just 11
appearances this season.

    Arsenal faced Newcastle hours after Pennant's crash and he was on standby
for the game. Wenger fined Pennant the maximum two weeks' wages - about GBP
20,000 - for breaching club discipline by breaking a curfew.

    The day after the crash Pennant, whose Arsenal contract ends this season,
was loaned to Birmingham City.


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              34 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2005 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Court orders Chongryon to pay 785 mil. yen over fraud

SOURCE: Yomiuri

BODY:

   The Tokyo District Court on Monday ordered the General Association of Korean
Residents in Japan (Chongryon), a former official at the association and a
former president at the defunct Chogin Tokyo Credit Union--which served the
North Korean community in Japan--to pay about 785 million yen in damages for the
misappropriation of funds.

   "Chongryon used funds illegally obtained from the Chogin credit union,"
Presiding Judge Hiroshi Seki said in ordering Chongryon; Kang Young Kwan, 69,
former head of Chongryon's financial bureau; and Sin Byong Jung, 57, former
president of the credit union, to pay the full amount demanded in the lawsuit
filed by the Resolution and Collection Corporation, which took over the bank
when it collapsed.

   According to the ruling, Kang and Sin conspired to have loans of about 837
million yen deposited from 1994 to 1998 in a credit union account opened under a
false name. Kang then diverted the funds for pro-Pyongyang Chongryon's use.

   "Chongryon shares responsibility in this case because it employed Kang," the
ruling read.

   Kang and Sin were charged and convicted for embezzeling corporate funds.
Kang, however, is appealing the six-year prison sentence he received.

   In the early stages of the lawsuit, the former president of the credit union,
who had also been listed as a defendant, reached an out-of-court settlement
under which he paid 52 million yen to RRC.

   Meanwhile, Chongryon said in a statement that it would appeal the court's
decision on the grounds that it had no basis in fact.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              35 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 02, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: City; IN BRIEF Pg. 31

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Amvescap confident of recovery after scandal

BYLINE: By Harry Wallop

BODY:
FUND manager Amvescap lost $7.6billion of business in the final quarter of last
year - the largest amount in nine quarters. However, it insisted that it was
winning back the confidence of clients after last year's scandal that ended with
Amvescap paying a settlement of $375m to regulators.

   James Roberston, chief financial officer, said: "It's only been a month and a
half since we had the formal settlement. It's early days but we're happy."

   He pointed out that outflows at its crucial US retail business fell to
$3billion in the final quarter of last year, compared with $3.4billion in the
previous quarter, helped by the company advertising on American television for
the first time since the scandal.

   Mr Roberston refused to be drawn on rumours that Amvescap had held talks with
potential bidders. Societe Generale is believed to be the mostly likely buyer.

   Many City analysts, however, believe Amvescap is vulnerable. Martin Cross at
Teather & Greenwood said: "I think there is a reasonable probability of a bid in
the next 12 to 18 months. However, I reckon it is far more likely to be a big
American name rather than Societe Generale."

   He added that he was pleased that the final dividend was cut by just 1.5p to
5p. It will be paid on May 4.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              36 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCALTABLE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Hi-tech sting that targeted a mayor

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: MARK SKELSEY

BODY:

    IT was a spying operation worthy of the best whodunnit.

   A police officer yesterday told how he took part in an elaborate sting,
involving a fake mobile phone containing a tiny video camera, to record money
being paid to Strathfield mayor Alfred Tsang.

   The officer, whose name was suppressed, gave evidence to the Independent
Commission Against Corruption inquiry into key figures at Strathfield Council.
ICAC is investigating a $2500 payment to Mr Tsang from property developer

   Michael Saklaoui.

   It's also investigating whether another councillor, John Abi-Saab, used
knowledge of the video to try to force Mr Tsang to resign as mayor.

   The former police officer, who resigned from the tactical response unit one
month after the secret footage was taken, said he didn't know that voice
recording without permission was illegal.

   The officer said he had known Mr Saklaoui for 18 years and made him godfather
to his child.

   He said Mr Saklaoui told him "the mayor of Strathfield was trying to get
money out of him, to get some approval".

   The officer went to electrical chain Bing Lee and surveillance equipment shop
Oz Spy in early July to organise the purchase of $6500 worth of spying
equipment.

   This included a fake mobile phone with a pinprick-sized camera near its
antenna for $1399, along with two mini camcorders and battery packs.

   The mobile phone camera was used to record $2500 being passed from Mr
Saklaoui to Mr Tsang at a lunch at Angelos on the Bay restaurant, Cabarita, on
July 23 last year.

   The video signal from the camera was picked up by a transmitter being held by
the officer, who was sitting at a nearby table.

   The signal was then fed into a camcorder, on which the officer was sitting.

   At a separate table, another off-duty officer, with his wife, was sitting on
another camera also somehow connected to the spying operation.

   As well, Mr Saklaoui had what was referred to during the hearing of as a USB
or "memory stick" electronic voice recorder in his pocket.

   The officer agreed he had earlier attended the restaurant to establish the
best place to do the recording.

   Under examination by counsel assisting the commission Michael King, he agreed
he had even talked to the restaurant management to have tables placed in the

   "appropriate positions" on the balcony to avoid obstructions between them.

   A shirt button camera ($699) and and audio bugging device ($185) were also
purchased by Mr Saklaoui but there was no evidence yesterday that they were
used.

   The officer said he didn't report the secretly recorded video to NSW Police.

   Asked whether he didn't trust the NSW Police, he said: "It involved
politicians and councillors, they are fairly well-connected".

   The senior constable had been a police officer for 12 years. He was asked
whether he told one of the shop assistants from which he bought spying
equipment: "I'm with the tactical response unit, I know what I can use".

   The officer he "couldn't recall" saying this.

   Mr Saklaoui was due to give evidence yesterday but was sick. He is due to
take the stand today.

   ICAC Cluedo

   THE STORY SO FAR

   * The inquiry is trying to determine the motivation of people involved or
aware of an incident where $2500 in cash was supplied to Strathfield mayor
Alfred Tsang on July 23 last year

   * A key question is whether Mr Tsang was set-up as part a 'sinister plot" to
remove him as mayor, or whether he was willing to accept a bribe from a property
developer

   * So far, the inquiry has only had two witnesses, Mr Tsang and a police
officer

   * Property developer Michael Saklaoui is in the box today

   The Mayor

   Alfred Tsang

   * Filmed accepting $2500 at lunch

   * In the witness box, has said he's a good guy and community activist who was
an unwilling recipient of the cash

   * Said he was trying to get facilities, including a library, on a carpark
site development being discussed when the cash went across the table

   The Developer

   Michael Saklaoui

   * Allegedly organised lunch to record himself paying $2500 to Tsang

   * Allegedly suffered financially when Mr Tsang moved a council minute
reducing development potential on Liverpool Rd, Sth Strathfield

   * The policeman said Tsang was 'trying to get money out of him (Saklaoui)'

   The Councillor

   John Abi-Saab

   * Also a former mayor allegedly involved in a 'sinister plot' to force Tsang
to resign after lunch video

   * Under his reign, planning rules were changed to allow unit blocks up to 12
storeys along Liverpool Rd, Sth Strathfield

   * Tsang scrapped most of these new development rules when he took over

   The Policeman

   Name supressed

   * Spent $6500 buying spy equipment to film lunch. Saklaoui is his son's
godfather

   * Denied knowing that it was illegal to record people's voice without their
permission

   * Also put audio and video data on to compact discs, but did not give discs
to police

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              37 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry looks into vote buying charges

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: MALCOLM FARR

BODY:

    THE Federal Government today will be accused of using millions of taxpayer
dollars to pressure political opponents and buy votes.

   The charges, certain to spark a bitter start to the parliamentary year, are
contained in submissions to a Senate committee convening in Canberra.

   They also are expected to revive claims the Nationals tried to bribe an
Independent MP into resigning from Parliament.

   As many as 25 written submissions have been made to the inquiry by the
finance and administration committee, which will also take evidence from
witnesses.

   Independent MP for New England Tony Windsor is expected to appear before the
committee tomorrow with what he will claim are three instances of the government
using public money against him.

   Mr Windsor said in one instance, the government put a condition that he not
be on the board of a Tamworth horse centre before money for the project was
allocated.

   It already has been revealed that pressure was applied to ensure Mr Windsor's
name was not on a plaque marking the project. A Nationals senator has apologised
for

   the demand.

   The Senate probe will centre on claims the Government used the $300 million
Regional Partnerships Program as a political slush fund.

   Senators have been asked to look at how funding decisions were made, who took
part in them and the transparency and accountability of the funding.

   Last year in Parliament it was revealed that a confidential process called
Sona -- Strategic Opportunities Notional Allocation -- was used to bypass usual
funding decisions.

   Some $27.5 million for rural projects was allocated by the government during
the campaign for last October's election.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              38 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Ex-magistrate breaks down

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    DISGRACED former Queensland chief magistrate Di Fingleton was rushed to
hospital yesterday after breaking down in tears during a High Court hearing in
Canberra to clear her name.

    Paramedics were called to treat a highly distressed Ms Fingleton, who
appeared to collapse while sitting in the court's foyer after fleeing the
courtroom.

   She sat slumped on a lounge with a towel across her eyes before the mobile
intensive care ambulance arrived.

    Ms Fingleton was convicted in June 2002 on a charge of retaliating against a
witness after threatening to demote co-ordinating magistrate Basil Gribbin.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              39 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCALTABLE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: No signs of things to come - Newsagent a victim of city poster
crackdown

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: MARK SKELSEY

BODY:

    MOST newsagents blanket shopfronts with posters showing the front covers of
magazines or newspaper headlines.

   But Kings Cross newsagent David Hagan is too scared to after receiving a
Sydney City Council order that specifically told him to remove such posters.

   Mr Hagan was fined $600 for displaying a group of signs, including several
plastic wall signs, a promotional flag and six magazine posters sticky-taped to
his front window.

   Mr Hagan's experience is one reason the state chamber of commerce will today
launch a campaign against the council's signage rules.

   According to the chamber, rules used against Mr Hagan have the potential to
turn the CBD and surrounding suburbs into a "faceless, boring

   concrete jungle".

   The council policy, introduced for the CBD in 2003 but could soon be extended
across the council area, discourages any new animated signs -- such as the Coca
Cola sign at William St.

   Mr Hagan, of Fountain newsagency, was fined under a provision which states
"commercial advertising signs at and around shopfronts are prohibited".

   A council officer took a picture of his shopfront last October and pointed to
magazine posters taped to his glass window.

   A city council spokesman said the action was mainly against Mr Hagan's other
plastic box advertising signs attached to the front of his shop and he was now
free to put up posters.

   But Mr Hagan is not convinced, saying "I'm too frightened to put posters up".

   Chamber chief executive Margy Osmond said excessive signage rules could also

   reduce the city's international appeal as a place to locate corporate
headquarters.

   "These rules are going to make it really difficult to do business in this
city," she said.

   "We're going to take the colour and vitality out of Sydney and leave it with
a sad face."

   A city council spokesman said the policy, to be discussed at a meeting next
month, did not ban or prohibit advertising.

   "The plan regulates signage and advertising, as all councils do, in response
to some unfortunate practices in the past by the [advertising] industry," the
spokesman said.

   But while business advertising is under scrutiny, the council voted in
December to relax rules for bill posters on public land.

   Councillors voted to remove the posters from poles along King St at Newtown
and Glebe Point Rd, Glebe, every five days instead of every day.

   Shopfront and signage proposals

   Sydney City Council proposed signage rules:

    * Restaurant and cafe menu boards not allowed on footpaths; boards affixed
to walls must be "constructed of high-quality materials

   and appropriate to streetscape amenity"

    * Any change to a shopfront's colour or lighting needs approval, including
barbers who

   want to paint red and

   white stripes

    * Illuminated signs must be powered from a "renewable energy" source such as
solar power or wind turbines

    * Tight controls on animated signs, which

   will be allowed only in

   "rare situations"

    * Office skyscrapers' large rooftop signs, must have name of a building
occupant, not just a general advertising sign

    * Corporate logos on rooftop signs may need

   to be altered to "achieve compatibility with the building's architectural
design"

    * Awning signs must be 3m apart

    * Commercial advertising signs around shopfronts banned, including
advertising stickers, banners and flags

    * Signs in Chinatown

   must be in both English

   and Chinese

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              40 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: How a rift divided a teachers' staffroom

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: BRUCE MCDOUGALL

BODY:

    A PUBLIC school has been torn apart by a feud between teachers, which will
be taken to the Anti-Discrimination Board.

   Long-serving husband and wife teachers David and Donna Nicholls claim their
lives have been "wrecked" by the dispute with other staff at Dubbo North Public
School.

   The atmosphere at the school degenerated as the staff were unable to settle
their differences.

   The Nicholls -- Aborigines who had three children attending the school --
claim they were "bullied" out of jobs they held for up to 11 years.

   Mr Nicholls was found to have suffered a psychological injury while teaching
at the school.

   At the height of the dispute, allegations were made that:

    * MONEY from the Aboriginal school fund was misused;

    * MR Nicholls was not properly

   consulted about the composition of his class;

    * TEN staff members withdrew their names from a social function list after
Mr Nicholls and his wife added their names; and

    * ALL teachers except Mr Nicholls were referred to by their first names on a
sports roster.

   Staff claimed the Nicholls harboured a grievance that their son was not
selected as school captain. A petition was allegedly circulated calling the
Nicholls disloyal to the school.

   Mr Nicholls said: "I was at the school for 10 years -- I have 200-300 cards
that teachers and kids have sent me saying they love me. Now all this just
because I asked a few questions." Mr Nicholls won restoration of leave
entitlements, amounting to more than $6000, in the Workers' Compensation
Commission. But the Education Department is angry about criticism of principal
Heather Borneman.

   Commission arbitrator Craig

   Tanner accused Ms Borneman of being "remiss in failing to intervene as
conflict ... escalated.

   "She [Ms Borneman] permitted staff ... to mobilise against the applicant and
his wife and to ostracise them."

   A spokesman for the Education Department said it would abide by the decision
but criticised Mr Tanner. "In such cases the commission operates on an informal
basis without enforcement of the rules of evidence," he said. "As such, the
principal of Dubbo North Public School did not have an opportunity to respond to
the allegations."

   Mr Nicholls said yesterday he and his wife were "on long service leave on
half pay" but neither wanted to work for the department again.

   Mr and Mrs Nicholls left Dubbo North Public on March 26, 2003, and were
transferred to another school. Their children were also later moved to another
school.

   "We're both Aboriginal -- that's the sad part," Mr Nicholls said.

   "People are dodging the racial issue but know it's racist."

   The government has formed 59 occupational health and safety staff around the
state into regional teams in a bid to stem workers' compensation costs. Their
work includes supporting principals in issues such as return-to-work programs,
staff welfare, conflict resolution and mediation, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              41 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2775 words

HEADLINE: Letters to the Editor

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    Tsunami victims need our tourist dollars

   We were among the few tourists who did not cancel a proposed holiday in Sri
Lanka and southern India soon after the tsunami disaster.

   Having gone in trepidation, fearing that we were showing disrespect to
communities faced with the tragedy, we have returned with a clear message from
those communities: "Please come!"

   The hidden tragedy of the tsunami is that thousands of cleaners, waiters,
drivers and others who depend on tourism for their incomes are now at risk of
losing their jobs.

   Many of these are the breadwinners in their families, who are in an
increasingly desperate plight. We can help them best by visiting them as
tourists.

   We can promise from our own experience that the welcome will be a warm one,
with hidden benefits because of the absence of crowds, such as getting to
bottle-feed a baby elephant.

   Len and Wendy Fisher,

   Medlow Bath

   A chilling thought

   Further to sentiments expressed by Bruce McEwan and Professor Jon Jenkins
(Letters, February 1), the current inter-glacial period (beginning about 12,000
years ago) has undoubtedly proved optimum breeding conditions for the new,
improved homo sapiens with population estimated to have skyrocketed six
thousand-fold.

   In the past two million years there have been 20 Ice Ages and, if the pundits
are correct, we're a thousand years or so overdue for the start of the next one.

   Wouldn't it be ironic if the mass-scale burning of so-called fossil fuels (we
're not exactly sure what crude oil is yet) was in fact keeping "The Day After
Tomorrow" somehow at bay?

   Robert Sutherland, Avalon

   Rail departure times

   Like Brian Hague (Letters, January 31), I have been chastised by CityRail for
not being on the platform five minutes before the departure time. (If you click
the "Travel Tips" on CityRail's website, you are advised to get there "a few"
minutes early.) So if I get there a full minute before the advertised departure
time, why should I only get to see the red tail lights disappearing into the
distance?

   CityRail says five minutes late is "on time", but for us to be on time we
have to be five minutes early? Interestingly, the e-mail response I received
when I complained said that "on time" means doors closed, ready to depart at the
advertised time.

   Graeme Davas, Riverwood

   I was on that 5.22am train that left Newcastle ("Slow train coming", Letters,
January 31). I boarded the train at Dora Creek at 6.10am and sat in the first
carriage and the train was on time between Morisset and Wyee, and we did hit a
kangaroo.

   We were informed through the train intercom shortly after it happened. The
train was checked at Wyee and again at Wyong. Yes, the train did travel slowly
as Mr P.Thompson said, but he wasn't on the train when we were notified. We were
told a few times before Cowan so with Mr Thompson getting on later, he never
knew of this. The train actually made it to Central an hour late, but safely at
least.

   Karen Urquhart, Dora Creek

   Casual teachers losing out

   More self-serving fluff from Bob Carr on education ("Carr tells parents to
pull their weight", Daily Telegraph, February 1).

   I am a part-time casual teacher in the TAFE system who has regularly carried
a full-time load or close to a full-time load over the past four years.

   That means that I have carried out essentially the same duties as a full-time
teacher who is paid about $18,000 more than I am. I am one of many hundreds in
the same situation.

   Other entrenched DET practices make the situation worse in many ways. When
there have been attempts to correct the abusive regime for part-time casual
teachers, who opposes the changes? The Carr Government of course.

   Philip Owen, Waverley

   Back in the 1970s there was no such thing as political correctness, no social
engineering and no non-core subjects apart from music and sport.

    What the schools are expected to teach today was very much the domain of
mums and dads back then and the teachers were expected to teach the children to
read, write and add so they could half appreciate what mum and dad were going on
about.

   That, at least, was the general idea. With both myself and my wife working we
didn't have the luxury of attending daytime school functions and get-togethers
so it came as a bit of a shock when we found that our two boys were struggling
to read and write and had little idea of comprehension. School reports suggested
they were average.

   We couldn't blame all the extra curriculum subjects in those days, they
simply didn't exist. The truth is they, like many others, were just not being
taught and as the old adage goes, "If the teacher hasn't taught, the pupil hasn
't learned".

   It took three years of private tuition to finally bring our sons up to
scratch.

    Yes, parents should make their children aware of life's rules and how to
conduct themselves -- that's a parent's job. In turn the teachers should
concentrate on what they are paid to do -- teach our children to read, write and
add up.

   Maybe, just maybe, during the extended school holidays when teachers have the
privilege of paid leave that escapes the rest of us, they could volunteer their
services to helping youngsters who are struggling to catch up, in the privacy of
their own homes?

   Failing that, maybe they could paint the school?

    Jack Staniforth, Gooloogong

   Good one, Mr Carr ... let parents know they have responsibilities when it
comes to their children. How about taking it further? How about making the
parents aware that their children must get manners and discipline at home?

   Ron Houison, Penrith

   Maybe schools should ask the students what they already know before they
teach them. They might be surprised to find that the majority of children
already know what they are teaching them in relation to the sun, road safety,
safe foods etc and in relation to much of the curriculum they are presenting.

   What students need is for teachers to teach them what they don't know in an
environment where the rules complement and support all those values, issues and
rules that they keep talking about.

    Jolanda Challita, Miranda

   Bad bus manners

   I watched in disbelief this morning as a frail, elderly lady was not offered
a seat by any of the first dozen seated passengers on a 504 bus to Sydney.

   If the people of Sydney have become so ill-mannered, then the bus driver
should step in and insist that someone vacate a seat for the elderly, the
pregnant and the less mobile. Also, I wonder who would be liable if an elderly
person is injured or if a pregnant woman were to suffer a miscarriage in a fall
because no one would offer them a seat?

   Pablo Berrutti, Wareemba

   Happy

   traveller

   Last November/December I attended a clinic at Royal Prince Alfred Hospital
for four consecutive weeks.

   I decided to bite the bullet and travel from Morisset to Camperdown to the
hospital by public transport. I arrived at Morisset station at 6am to catch the
6.14 train. It arrived about 6.11am and I took a seat at the front. It left
Morisset exactly at 6.14am -- right on time.

    On the way to Sydney I couldn't help noticing the new concrete sleepers and
new-looking rails that were in place.

   When I arrived at the suburbs of Sydney I was struck by the sight of the
number of new galvanised stanchions that had been erected obviously to replace
the old ones.

   All the way announcements from CityRail staff informed passengers of the next
station the train was scheduled to stop. My trip was most enjoyable, comfortable
and on time.

   I walked to Central Square and caught a 412 bus and explained to the driver
that I was unfamiliar with city travel and could he warn me when approaching RPA
Hospital. Travelling along Missenden Rd a few minutes later the driver called
out Prince Alfred hospital and stopped at the front entrance.

    Three other times in November and December I travelled the same journey with
exactly the same result -- on time every time, comfortable, airconditioned,
modern carriages and then fast bus travel. For an amazing charge of $2.60.

    I am now a convert to public transport.

    E.L.Kissick,

   Windermere Park

   Money back

   Israel's prime minister Ariel Sharon says Auschwitz proves that Jews can only
rely on themselves. Does this mean that he will now hand back the cheque for $1
billion that his country receives every year from the United States?

   Denis Kevans,

   Wentworth Falls

   First step to Arab democracy

   Good on you Piers Akerman for keeping the democratic hope of the Iraqi people
alive ("No stopping Iraq's march to freedom", Daily Telegraph, February 1).

   For too long the naysayers, and you list them comprehensively, have been
claiming democracy can't be enforced on a culture that has no democratic
tradition. This is rubbish.

   Traditions change all the time and introducing democracy into the Arab world
is only one example of a cultural change that promises to sweep away the despots
and the mullahs and replace them with the greatness of the Westminister or
American electoral system.

   Thomas Selim-Clarke, Mount Druitt

   To gain their freedom the people of East Timor had to undergo similar
experiences to those being felt by the people in Iraq. I can only hope that the
outcome of the election will be the same.

   Brian Swan, Epping

   As Iraqis queued to exercise their democratic right in Auburn, it was bad
enough seeing people actually protesting. And then the guns came out.

   The attackers? "Men from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Lebanon" according to
witnesses. When guns are fired outside polling booths in Australia, I must ask:
Why were these people allowed into our country?

   Daniel Lewis, Rushcutters Bay

   Authorities must come down hard on those involved in the shooting at Auburn.
It must be made clear to our newcomers -- both invited and uninvited -- that in
Australia political disputes are not settled by guns.

    Or by intimidation (ALP Caucus possibly excepted). Democracy also includes
the right to be wrong in the eyes of others -- without fear of retribution.

    Chris Horn, Summer Hill

   The language we speak

   I have no intentions of getting into a slanging match, but in response to the
comments from P.H.Edwards (To The Point, February 1), my question is, Wouldn't
you learn the Asian language if you lived there for a period of time?

   We lived in Malaysia in the 1960s for two to three years and we were required
to learn the language, so therefore, you live in Australia, you learn English.

   Sorry, but what is "Pitjantjatjara". If it's Aboriginal, then at least they
speak English when mixing with English-speaking people.

   I suggest P.H.Edwards look around him or her -- 90 per cent of people in
Australia expect the people here to speak English, so don't call me
chauvinistic.

   Peter W.Herman

   Why Hawkeye is not spot on

   I appreciate the input from your readers into my questioning of the Hawkeye
technology. However, I did consider the force and velocity of the tennis ball
leading to increased surface area contact due to compression on impact.

   What I'm demurring is when they show the figure of the ball overlapping the
line by 2mm or 3mm and consider it as being in. Unless compression of the ball
on impact flattens the ball almost completely (not likely even if being hit at
more than 150km/h), it won't touch the line as shown in the graphic.

   Don't forget, some strokes such as slices, drop shots, etc are hit at minimal
velocity and force, leading to minimal compression, and they show the same
graphic.

   What I'm more interested in is whether the figure of the ball shown in their
graphics is the actual surface area of the ball touching the ground. If not,
then it's probably not accurate enough to use realistically by the umpires. Any
ideas?

   Q.Quan, Ryde

   Donated land sale

   Once again the Carr Government defies local sentiment by selling off public
property. This time the "For Sale" sign has been erected outside the Grose Wold
Public School.

   This site was donated by Sir Philip Charley in 1901 for "purposes of a public
school at Grose River". He said he would "convey the land to the education
department for such purposes".

   The Hawkesbury area, including Grose Wold and Grose Vale, is rapidly
expanding, and schools are bursting at the seams. The Grose Wold property would
be a much-needed addition to their facilities.

   Numerous letters and petitions have been forwarded to the Government
protesting against the planned sale, but to no avail.

   I strongly suggest that anyone considering deeding property to the
government, to tie it up as tightly as legally possible, because some future
government is liable to decide to sell it.

   What will they do when there is no property left to sell?

   Lynne Bagwell,

   Grose Wold

   Poor health

   Marilyn Grass (Letters, February 1) would like the health insurance rebate to
continue unchanged. Truth is, a review is overdue, because the rebate has not
had the desired effect. More Australians have private health insurance, yet this
has not reduced the stress on public hospitals.

   Raymond Miles,

   Surry Hills

   To the point

   About Warren's cartoon on Monday, glucose is a type of sugar known as a
monosaccharide (single sugar). It is plentiful in many sweets and beverages and
forms a major component of honey. The cup of sugar the jolly fellow in the
cartoon wanted is the cane sugar sucrose, which is a disaccharide (double sugar)
consisting of two single sugar units chemically joined together. But, then
Warren may have known this and used it as a ploy to elicit a response.

   Jim Stamell, Sylvania

   Condemning any relationship at its start is a negative thing to do ("A double
fault for sure", Daily Telegraph, February 1). Your columnist Anita Quigley is
probably a bitter, angst-ridden spinster and her opinion is unqualified. I got
married after a short romance, on the rebound, to someone I seemingly had
nothing in common with (she's Japanese, I'm Australian) and five years later we
are very happy.

   S.Newby, Bronte

   C'mon, Anita you are making quite a racquet. What actually is your gripe? Did
you even stop and think of at least one line of congratulations to a great young
couple?

   Mildred Melvin, Northbridge

   It is now more evident than ever that with the mediocre form of Andrew
Symonds, Matthew Hayden and Darren Lehmann, that Michael Bevan should not have
been dropped from the one-day cricket squad. Bevan has been the standout player
this season at state level and is of comparable age to the other three
mentioned.

   Dane Millerd, Penrith

   If Andrew Symonds was our best one-day player of the year I'd love to see
where Matthew Hayden finished. A poor decision.

   Michael Clark, Greystanes

   Channel 7's new black comedy, Desperate Housewives, has similarities to The
First Wives' Club. Well-connected socialites re-united after the suicide of
tortured friend who took a secret to her grave. At the funeral these social
climbers vow to take revenge on their estranged husbands in memory of their dead
friend.

   Ashley Bell, Burwood

   It may well prove a good move for Channel 9 to have Mark Ferguson as the new
6pm newsreader. I only wish that both Nine and Seven would also try to improve
the quality of their news programs. How about a program for viewers who are only
concerned with domestic affairs, but also interested in world events, even when
there are no Australians involved?

   Sonia Romei, Chifley

   What's news

   1 Lleyton Hewitt proposed to Home and Away star Bec Cartwright by giving her
a diamond engagement ring from exclusive jeweller Tiffany &Co. How much did it
cost?

   2 According to Department of Employment and Workplace Relations figures,
which two areas in Australia have the lowest unemployment rates?

   3 Which supergroup did legendary rock drummer Jim Capaldi, who has died of
cancer, play with in the 1960s and '70s?

   4 Which team is top of the Spanish La Liga soccer league after last weekend's
round of matches?

   5 Destiny's Child singer Beyonce Knowles has signed a deal to produce her own
fashion range for young women. What is the name of the collection?

   ANSWERS

   1:$220,000. 2:Sydney's eastern suburbs and Queensland's Darling Downs.
3:Traffic. 4:Barcelona. 5:The House of Dereon, which is named after her
grandmother Agnes, who worked as a seamstress.

   _____________________________

   Mail

   PO Box 2808, GPO Sydney, NSW 2001

   Fax

   Letters Editor, Daily Telegraph, 01-9288-2300

   Phone

   1900-969545. Calls cost 82.5 cents including GST per minute. Mobile and pay
phones extra.

   Email

   letters@dailytelegraph.com.au

   Letters should be no more than 250 words, clearly typed or neatly hand
written. Name and address and phone number must be supplied for verification.

   Letters may be edited.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              42 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Historical Feature; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Long arm of the law catches  stars if they fall

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: TROY LENNON

BODY:

    When celebrities go bad, everyone wants to know. TROY LENNON reports on the
biggest scandals

   As Michael Jackson goes on trial in the US, millions of people will follow
every development and await the verdict. Unlike the many ordinary people who
appear in court without making a ripple in the world's media, every detail of
Jackson's trial will find itself repeated somewhere in the news.

   That is the price of fame, a price that many a celebrity has had to pay when
they are forced to answer to the law. Sometimes the famous find they are
unfairly dragged through court by people trying to smear their name or even cash
in on their fame and wealth.

   One of the first famous actors to suffer a fatal blow to his reputation
(despite being acquitted) was Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle. In 1921 he was at a party
where a 17-year-old girl (some sources say 25-year-old), Virginia Rappe,
allegedly ran from a room screaming. The girl died a few days later from
peritonitis, an abdominal infection.

   Notorious Hollywood madam Maude Delmont had provided the "entertainment"
(girls) for the evening. Delmont had been known to blackmail her clients by
getting her girls to claim they had been raped. She tipped the police off about
Fatty Arbuckle. Delmont's testimony at his trial, not corroborated by other
evidence, was that Arbuckle had violated the girl, causing injuries that led to
her death. However, before her death Rappe had denied Arbuckle had sex with her.

   Arbuckle was finally vindicated at a trial in 1922. However, newspapers were
merciless, particularly those of William Hearst, who owned a rival studio and
knew that scandal sold papers.

   It was not the end of Arbuckle's career but before the trials, he had been
one of the highest-paid stars on screen; he was now relegated to mostly bit
parts, cameos and directing films.

   Charlie Chaplin was accused in the US in 1943 of having fathered a child by
actor Joan Barry. He was also falsely charged under the Mann Act (1910) with
transporting Barry across state lines for "immoral purposes". Blood tests proved
the child was not his, but at the time such tests were inadmissable as evidence
in court. He was ordered to pay $75 a week -- equivalent to about $2000 today --
to the mother until the child was 21. By the time the trial was over, some time
after World War II ended, he was paying to support a child that was not his own
and his name had been dragged through the mud.

   He eventually left the US (he was born in England and had never taken US
citizenship) and lived a virtual exile in Switzerland.

   Sometimes the celebrity's guilt is not in question but the laws that are used
to prosecute them are. In the '60s comedian Lenny Bruce pushed the bounds of
what was acceptable in a stand-up comedy routine.

   Bruce used whatever "profanities" came to mind, made whatever gestures and
mentioned whatever sexual acts or body parts that he thought would get a laugh.
His audiences loved it, but authorities were not impressed. His breakthrough
humour brought him before the law several times, beginning with his first arrest
on obscenity charges in San Francisco in 1961. At the trial in 1962 he was
acquitted but Bruce was hounded by moralists. He was thrown out of England in
1963 because of pending drug and obscenity charges in the US.

   In New York in 1964, an undercover officer arrested him in his dressing room
after his set at the Cafe Au Go Go.

   Paul Newman, Bob Dylan and Norman Mailer came out in support of Bruce,
signing a petition against obscenity charges, but he was convicted in 1964 and
sentenced to four months in a workhouse. Because of his appeals and then his
death from a morphine overdose in 1966, he never served the sentence.

   Rock stars also seem to be over-represented when it comes to confrontations
with the law.

   Members of the Rolling Stones were raided in England in a widely publicised
operation in 1967. Keith Richards and Mick Jagger were found guilty after a
highly suspect trial in which it came out that none of the alleged hashish was
discovered and only drugs that Jagger had bought legally in Italy -- four
benzedrine tablets -- were found. Since it was their first offence, the High
Court quashed Richards' conviction on appeal and reduced Jagger's sentence to
conditional release.

   Jim Morrison, lead singer in the band The Doors, arrived drunk at a concert
at Dinner Keys, Florida, in March 1969. He took the stage in the overcrowded
hall and it was clear to the audience that something was not right. He abused
the crowd, saying things such as "You are all a bunch of f...ing idiots".

   He kept stopping in the middle of songs, continued drinking and then asked
the audience, "Do you want to see my c...?" He is then alleged to have exposed
himself quickly and continued with his show. The incident hit the newspapers and
the US government was pressured into doing something about this lewd rocker. A
warrant was issued for Morrison's arrest but he turned himself in to the FBI. On
trial he did not deny the charges of obscene language but denied the charge that
he had exposed himself. He was found guilty in September 1970, and sentenced in
October, to six months of hard labour, a $500 fine for public exposure and 60
days of hard labour for profanity. He was released on a $50,000 bond but died in
July 1971 before his appeal.

   Australians were treated to a celebrity trial when British rocker and party
animal Joe Cocker was arrested on his Australian tour in 1972 for possessing and
using marijuana. In court on October 17, he pleaded guilty and was released on
bail. The Government threatened him with deportation but he continued his tour.
When he arrived in Melbourne he was in hot water again, after a boozy party. He
was arrested on charges including assault and obscenity.

   The federal immigration minister, Dr Alexander Forbes, issued a deportation
order and Cocker was gone by October 22, to avoid a forcible deportation. The
charges from the hotel stoush were dropped by way of acknowledging that he left
at his own expense. He returned to Australia in December to withdraw his appeal
on drug charges and cop a fine of $300.

   cl@ssmate

   classmate.news.com.au

   ACTIVITY:

   Follow the trial of a celebrity in The Daily Telegraph. Is the verdict or
sentence fair?

   WEBSITE:

   Celebrity Trials

   www.thejusticesystem.net/celebrity-trial-news.html

   Latest news on celebs in court.

   BOOK:

   World's Greatest Trials by Tim Healey (Bounty Books), $3.95.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              43 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; On This Day; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: ON THIS DAY

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    1653

   New Amsterdam, now New York City, is declared a city by the Dutch. Manhattan
was bought from Indians for a collection of trinkets.

   1709

   Scottish sailor Alexander Selkirk is rescued after being marooned on a
Pacific island for four years. Daniel Defoe used him as the model for Robinson
Crusoe.

   1829

    Charles Sturt and fellow explorers find and name the Darling River but are
disappointed to find that its water is salty.

   1880

   An experimental cargo of frozen meat from Australia arrives in London in good
condition aboard the steam ship Strathleven.

   1971

    Doug Anthony, 41, is elected unopposed leader of the federal Country Party.
He is deputy prime minister from 1971-72 and from 1975-83.

   1979

    Sex Pistol Sid Vicious (John Simon Ritchie) dies aged 21 of an overdose
while awaiting trial in New York for the stabbing murder of his girlfriend,
Nancy Spungen.

   1982

   Coroner Gerry Galwin commits Lindy Chamberlain to stand trial on the charge
of murdering her 10-week-old daughter, Azaria. She was ultimately cleared.

   1989

    The Red Army's nine-year occupation of Afghanistan ends as 120,000 troops
leave Kabul for Russia.

   1990

    South African president F.W. de Klerk ends a 30-year ban on the African
National Congress, shattering a cornerstone of apartheid.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              44 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; 7 Days / Seven Days; Pg. T07

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE CHOICE

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: JOHN SPENCE

BODY:

    wednesday february 2

   THE UNSAID

   * * *

   Showtime, 10.05am

   It's a case of shrink, heal thyself in this dark thriller exploring teenage
suicide and child abuse. Eminent psychotherapist Michael Hunter (Andy Garcia,
pictured) is devastated when his son commits suicide. Two years later he takes
on the case of disturbed teenager Tom Caffey (Vincent Kartheiser). There's more
to the story than meets the eye and the awful truth is peeled away layer by
layer for a devastating finale.

   CHANGING LANES

   * * *

   Showtime, 8.30pm

   A minor car accident causes major aggro between lawyer Gavin Banek (Ben
Affleck) and recovering alcoholic Doyle Gipson (Samuel L. Jackson). Banek,
rushing to a court hearing to decide the future of his law firm, leaves Gipson
stranded and unable to make a court appearance that will result in his wife
gaining custody of their sons. Banek has left vital paperwork for his hearing at
the accident scene and each will blame the other for their misfortune. The saga
of revenge brings out the worst in both men before they confront the real issues
in their lives.

   SAFE CONDUCT

   * * *

   SBS, 10pm

   Bertrand Tavernier's film about a group of workers in the French film
industry under German occcupation in 1942 is based on the real-life experiences
of screenwriter Jean Aurench and director Jean-Devaivre.

   They must weigh their consciences about censorship and propaganda against the
need to

   survive the war. In the case of Devaivre (Jacques Gamblin, pictured), working
for the Resistance, it was more a case of maintaining a cover for his anti-Nazi
activities. Tavernier's tribute to those who kept the film industry alive under
trying conditions is both entertaining and poignant.

   thursday february 3

   MYSTIC RIVER

   * * * *

   Box Office (Foxtel Digital), choice of viewing times

   Clint Eastwood's edgy thriller earned Sean Penn and Tim Robbins an Oscar
each. Mystic River is about three pals from Boston reunited after 30 years by a
second tragedy. What happened to Dave (Robbins, pictured) all those years ago
resurfaces. Caught in the middle is Sean (Kevin Bacon) now a homicide cop
investigating the murder of Jimmy's (Penn) daughter. The resolution is anything
but expected.

   SKYWEST AND CROOKED

   * * *

   Showtime Greats, 6.20am

   Very much a Mills family film, with John trying his hand at directing for the
first time, daughter Hayley as the lead and writer wife Mary supplying the story
idea. The setting is a small English village where 17-year-old Brydie White
(Hayley Mills) is regarded as simple after an accident as a child when the boy
she was playing with was killed. Brydie became fixated with death, choosing to
play in the graveyard and conduct burial ceremonies for dead animals. Now she's
fallen for gypsy boy Roibin (Ian McShane) and the village gossips turn on her.
The plot may be a simple one, but John Mills has managed to sustain Brydie and
Roibin's innocent love story as a focus of an intriguing look at English village
life.

   AS GOOD AS IT GETS

   * * * *

   Showtime Greats, 8.30pm

   Jack Nicholson and Helen Hunt (pictured) star in this slick comedy about a
grouch who rejoins the human race. Melvin Udall (Nicholson) is a misogynist who
hates animals and children. But he reaches a turning point when his neighbour
Simon is mugged and Melvin has to look after Simon's dog. Miraculously, Melvin
gets attached to the mutt and has a change of heart about his fellow man.

   friday february 4

   THE LIFE OF DAVID GALE

   * * *

   Showtime, midday

   Alan Parker's psychological thriller leads the viewer on a tortuous path to a
rather unexpected conclusion. Kevin Spacey's David Gale is a former philosophy
professor who is awaiting execution for murdering his friend Constance (Laura
Linney), who campaigned with him for the abolition of capital punishment.
Journalist Bitsey Bloom (Kate Winslet, pictured) interviews Gale, whose life we
see in a series of flashbacks as he protests his innocence to Bitsey.

   RINALDO

   * * *

   SBS, 10.55pm

   Like Shane, the theme of the Seven Samurai has been universally copied to
depict the oppressed fighting for their rights in an unjust world. This
Hungarian film applies the Samurai philosophy to a bunch of good guys who stand
up for the poor residents of a run-down Budapest apartment block to stop a gang
of thugs from taking over the building. The title comes from the name of an
Italian circus knife-thrower who the Good Samaritans recruit to help defend the
building. However, when the battle begins, Rinaldo shows little taste for
violence.

   THE ACID HOUSE

   * * *

   Movie Extra, 12.30pm

   A strong stomach, an indifference to foul language and the ability to
understand a broad Glaswegian accent is handy in this visual headbutt by
Trainspotting author Irvine Welsh. Welsh and director Paul McGuigan will have
you gagging on the ugliest of images. It begins with a young soccer player being
turfed off the team, out of his parents' house, out of his girlfriend's life,
out of a job and into jail, all in one day. He meets God in the pub, is turned
into a fly and uses that insect's disgusting habits to get his own back. Stars
Kevin McKidd (pictured).

   saturday february 5

   MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING

   * * *

   Showtime Greats, 10.10am

   A wacky romantic comedy with Julia Roberts as a food critic who has lost
touch with one-time lover and sports writer Dermot Mulroney. But when he calls
to tell her he's getting married to Cameron Diaz, she realises he was always the
only man for her. She has just four days to win him back, enlisting the help of
her gay editor (Rupert Everett, pictured with Roberts). Everett almost steals
the show in a riotously camp singalong.

   BEDAZZLED

   * * *

   Nine, 8.30pm

   Brendan Fraser stars in this trite modern-day Faustian romantic comedy as
Elliot, a retiring call centre worker who has had a crush on fellow worker
Alison for years. After one disastrous date she dumps him and Elliot wishes she
'd come back. Hey presto! Up pops the Princess of Darkness (Elizabeth Hurley) to
offer him seven wishes in return for his soul. But he soon discovers that every
wish he's granted has its downside and he wants to end the deal. Maybe he should
just be brave for once and follow his heart.

   BRASSED OFF

   * * * *

   Nine, 10.30pm

   In the same mould as The Full Monty, this gritty tale from England during the
Thatcher years is about workers uniting to overcome grim times. The Grimley
Colliery is threatened with closure, just as the pit's brass band is preparing
for the national championships. Band leader Danny (Pete Postlethwaite, pictured)
is having a hard time keeping spirits up until gifted flugelhorn player Gloria
(Tara Fitzgerald) arrives back in town. With childhood sweetheart Andy (Ewan
McGregor) trying to rekindle their romance, Gloria comes under pressure as the
band heads for the play-offs.

   sunday february 6

   ANGER MANAGEMENT

   * * * *

   Showtime, 6.40pm

   Jack Nicholson combines the flakiness of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with
the gleeful wickedness of The Witches Of Eastwick to create another delightfully
odd-ball character in Dr Buddy Rydell. The wacko management therapist is
assigned to treat mild-mannered Dave Buznik (Adam Sandler, pictured) for his
inner rage. Just why he is let loose on Dave is best quickly forgotten for, as
the tricky finale reveals, it's literally a means to an end.

   HOLLYWOOD HOMICIDE

   * *

   Showtime, 8.30pm

   Harrison Ford plays grizzled veteran LAPD cop Joe Gavilan, who is
moonlighting as a real estate agent and other sidelines to pay off three
alimonies. Josh Hartnett is his rookie partner K. C. Calden, a yoga instructor
who really wants to be an actor but has joined the force for personal reasons
that will soon become apparent. The pair are being grilled by an over-zealous
Internal Affairs investigator over their extra-curricular jobs. You can see the
plot coming at you at the speed of light; it's a pity it takes so long for the
real action to heat up.

   FROM HELL

   * * *

   Seven, 9.30pm

   This Jack the Ripper horror tale opts for the conspiracy theory surrounding
Queen Victoria's grandson, Prince Edward. Royal licentiousness, masonic mystery,
anti-Semitism and medical cover-ups confront junkie super-sleuth Inspector
Abberline (Johnny Depp, pictured) in trying to solve the grisly serial murders
of Whitechapel's prostitutes. Sporting a cockney accent that wouldn't be out of
place in the Bronx, Abberline spend his nights lost in a haze of opium, laudanum
and absinthe and having vivid psychic visions of the killer in action.

   monday february 7

   THE GATHERING STORM

   * * *

   Movie One, 9.40am

   An HBO production following Winston Churchill's years in the political
wilderness from 1934 leading up to World War II. Stalked by the depression he
called the "Black Dog", he was a lone voice in the Commons warning of Hitler's
plans for world domination. Well worth a visit for Albert Finney's (pictured)
grand performance as Churchill, not just a lookalike rendition but with that
unmistakeable voice and glowering mannerisms captured to a T.

   MRS CALDICOT'S CABBAGE WAR

   * * *

   Showtime, 6.35pm

   Pauline Collins makes a welcome return to the screen in this grey power
comedy. After years of waiting on her insufferable husband, Mrs Caldicot
(Collins) is freed when he is clobbered by a cricket ball and dies. But her
grasping son has her dispatched to a nursing home so he can get his hands on her
house. Fed up with boiled cabbage and the other inedible food served in the
home, Mrs Caldicot leads a protest against its miserly owner and with the rest
of the residents in tow, escapes to a seaside hotel and charges the rooms to the
nursing home. Great fun.

   IGBY GOES DOWN

   * * *

   Movie One, 8.30pm

   Writer-director Burr Steers has the audience in the palm of his hand from the
chilling opening scene where rich brothers Igby (Kieran Culkin, pictured with
co-star Claire Danes) and Oliver poison their domineering mother and calmly wait
for her to die. Can it be this grim, you ask? Well, no. Steers rewinds the
action to give us a wry and often witty account of what drove them to this act
of desperation.

   As the title implies, this story belongs to Igby, an anti-hero in the Holden
Caulfield mould, who flees to New York when his mother tries to banish him to a
military academy.

   tuesday february 8

   RAISING VICTOR VARGAS

   * * * *

   Movie One, 8.30pm

   In Peter Sollett's rite of passage, Victor (Victor Rasuk, pictured) is a
wannabe lover coping with adolescence and a disfunctional family in Lower East
Manhattan, where he and his younger brother and sister live with their strict
grandma (Altagracia Guzman). Much of the appeal of Raising Victor Vargas is in
the refreshingly natural presence of the young cast and the love-hate
relationship they have with granny.

   AMERICAN SPLENDOR

   * * *

   Showtime, 8.30pm

   Some people seek refuge from the monotony of daily life in the strangest of
ways. Take Harvey Pekar, for example. The hospital filing clerk from Cleveland,
with two failed marriages behind him, who collects jazz records and comic books,
decided to write his autobiography. Harvey translated the most mundane details
of daily life into comic book form with the help of his cartoonist pal. The book
attracted a cult following and in the movie based on it, Harvey (Paul Giamatti)
displays the same deadpan humour as the real man, who is featured in constant
cutaways.

   LOST IN LA MANCHA

   * * * *

   Showtime, 10.15pm

   It's probably the first time there's been a "making of" documentary about a
film that was never made. Terry Gilliam (pictured) had grand plans for his film
The Man Who Killed Don Quixote starring Jean Rochefort and Johnny Depp. But his
project was jinxed from the start. Jets from a NATO bombing range screamed
overhead, a torrential storm washed away the sets and camera gear and Rochefort
fell ill. Woody Allen described this documentary as "extremely entertaining and
every director's worst nightmare". Coming from cinema's greatest worrier that's
saying something.

   * * * * * Just brilliant

   * * * * A cut above

   * * * Enjoyable

   * * Average

   * Bomb

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              45 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: FEATURES; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR7 Days / Seven Days; Pg. T28

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SOURCE: MATP

BODY:

    CHANGE FOR THE WORSE

   What on earth does the ABC news think it's doing with that new set and new
music? It's ghastly. The jingle is silly, the set is like something from Ikea
and as for the weather, you can't read the tiny type on that dreary map with its
curved screen.

   P. Rinkowksi, Mona Vale

   RADIO DOES IT BETTER

   Our family was looking forward to hearing the new theme music for the ABC
news for the first time but what a disappointment! It is so bland. Whoever is in
charge of the ABC news music at ABC radio should be put in charge of the
television news as well. It is so much better.

   J. Ross, Parkes

   DESPERATE MEASURES

   What a shame Channel 7 could not resist raving about its new show Desperate
Housewives all the way through its commentary of the Australian Open. I swear
you would have thought Lleyton Hewitt was playing Teri Hatcher in the final they
way they went on. Haven't they learned that too much hype makes you bored of the
whole idea of a show?

   S. O'Rourke, Haberfield

   THE FINAL STRAW

   I would just like to express my disgust at Channel 9's treatment of the best
show on television, The West Wing. I couldn't believe it when I read (Seven
Days, January 26) that the show is being dropped before the end of the proper
season. Surely it is not too much to ask that they put on the last few episodes
late at night? It would have been annoying but at least we could have seen how
the season wraps up. It is just offensive that they treat such great programs so
badly. Maybe if the producers would rename it CSI: Washington it would have a
chance at some decent treatment.

   J. Champion, Cronulla

   Send your letters via e-mail to sevendays@dailytelegraph.com.au (text only,
no attachments please), or fax to 02 9288 2613 or send them to Seven Days TV
Letters, Daily Telegraph PO Box 2808, GPO Sydney NSW 2010. Name and address and
phone number must be supplied for verification.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              46 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2005 Wellington Newspapers Limited
                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Inventor's flash of inspiration Inventor Peter Witehira seems to have
attracted trouble throughout his career at Hamilton research firm Power Beat.
Mary

BODY:

   PETER WITEHIRA often wakes at night, his brain full of ideas. The 54-year-old
inventor and founder of Power Beat International, a Hamilton research and
development company, has had a tumultuous 16 years in business.

   But like the main character in the whack-a-mole game, he keeps poking his
head up for more.

   Mr Witehira's latest invention, a remote consumer ordering system using a
key-ring device to take pictures of a product from any form of media and e-mail
the order away within three seconds, has taken him five years to develop.

   In typical Witehira fashion the invention, known as Chaizer, was
controversial and involved in a High Court battle with The Warehouse founder
Stephen Tindall.

   "This is my best-ever invention," he says. A bold statement considering he
produced two world-firsts -- an intelligent car battery which lets motorists
restart their vehicles without jumper leads and an internal combustion engine
made of aluminium.

   Other inventions include his multi-layered three-dimensional LCD computer
screen, pitched at niche markets such as financial trading and the military. The
screens let users view multiple applications simultaneously, with the main
benefit being the ability to react quickly to visual information such as trading
alerts.

   Then there's another Witehira brainchild -- MegaMantis, which uses a visible
low-power light beam to transfer data, video and radio signals at speeds only
possible in the visible light spectrum.

   The technology is set up in Power Beat's foyer on Airport Rd opposite
Hamilton Airport. It uses a tiny light beam to transmit live colour footage from
the airport carparks and terminals on to a screen at Power Beat. The footage
proved handy for the airport company when it successfully foiled an attempt to
steal cars.

   It was also used during the Bathurst motor race and provides TVNZ with a
weather link from a camera mounted on above Hamilton East's Environment Waikato
building.

   So if Mr Witehira is so clever -- and clearly the commercial success some of
his inventions suggest he is -- why has his company not made any money since
1997 and shareholders' original $ 18.58 million investment now worth $ 1.28
million?

   There's a commonly-held view that Mr Witehira is a flawed genius, full of
ideas but without the business savvy to make them successful.

   Mr Witehira says since the public float of his company in 1989, he's never
gone back to the public for more money. Most of the 1100 shareholders would say
just as well. Some of them paid up to $ 16 a share. They've never been paid a
dividend in all that time and the shares last traded at 75 cents.

   Things turned nasty at Power Beat around 1994-1995 when there were lengthy
court battles for control of the company. It was delisted in 1996 after the
stock exchange's market surveillance panel said Mr Witehira failed to keep the
market adequately informed.

   Mr Witehira eventually regained control but it came at a huge financial cost
for him and shareholders. The bulk of their investment in the company in
tangible terms today is the 5.65 hectares of freehold land the company owns
opposite the airport which Mr Witehira paid $ 100,000 for in 1993.

   It's now worth more than six times that and with $ 51 million development
plans at the airport, it seems to have been one of his better decisions.

   "Our goal is to ensure that we achieve the best possible long-term returns
for our small shareholders and major investors. However, the business we are
involved in is very complex and risky."

   Mr Witehira shares his office with personal assistant and wife Liz. The
couple have seven children, four boys and three girls, aged between nine to 26.
Another daughter died in 1989.

   One of their sons now works as an animator at Power Beat.

   "People say I invent too many things," says Mr Witehira.

   His reputation as a prodigious inventor -- "I've invented hundreds of things"
-- saw him asked to appear in a television programme, yet to be aired, called
Let's Get Inventing.

   It takes children's ideas and develops them.

   "The simpler the invention, the harder it is to develop."

   One girl came up with a way to make hairdryers less noisy. It's an idea Mr
Witehira sees merit in.

   His advice to other inventors is to look around the home for something that
would make life easier. Think about it for about an hour and then just put it to
one side, he says.

   In his case, that's where the sleepless nights kick in. He often wakes with a
solution after his subconscious mind has considered the problem.

   Mr Witehira, the fifth in a family of 10 children, was brought up in
Hamilton. His family are Ngapuhi, among the first Maori to be converted to
Christianity. His grandfather became a Mormon when the Church of Latter Day
Saints sent Maori-speaking missionaries to New Zealand in the 1800s. Witehira's
father is half-Scottish, his mother part-Yugoslav.

   Mr Witehira did a lot of reading when he was young while a student at Church
College in Temple View.

   His heroes were people like Thomas Edison, inventor of the electric light
among other things, and Philo Taylor Farnsworth, the forgotten father of
television.

   "Television is the greatest invention by any human being," says Mr Witehira.

   "If you look at it, it's the most challenging one. All the known laws of
physics were used."

   The technology fascinated the young Witehira. He remembers watching TV
screens through the windows of Forlongs in Frankton when they first came to
Hamilton.

   He left school at 15, got his driver's licence -- he has always had a passion
for cars -- then worked as a building industry apprentice, aluminium joiner,
builder and policeman.

   His first invention was a device to stop people stealing video recorders. The
VCRs became unusable once removed from a person's house.

   He sold the idea to the Development Finance Corporation in 1980 but it was
never developed.

   The day that changed his life came when his wife left her car headlights on
and the battery went flat. Mr Witehira had to push the car to get it started and
that's when the concept of Power Beat formed in his mind.

   Car batteries do two things at the same time -- they start the car and power
indicators, radio and lights. He conceived an idea for a battery with two
sections and a controller which would decide which section to use.

   Once invented, he set about raising funds to get it made. That's when Mr
Witehira's well-publicised problems started.

   They're all behind him for the moment and it is Chaizer he's banking on.

   The two-syllable name describes the concept of "chasing after" a deal.

   "This is our best technology because it will impact on a wide range of human
activities, not just easy shopping.

   "You snap it, we'll get it."

   Mr Witehira says its uses will be endless.

   "You can be walking downtown past a billboard advertising something you want,
all you do is take a picture and the rest is done."

   The idea for Chaizer was born from something simple too.

   Mr Witehira was reading a Rosemary McLeod column in the Waikato Times. She
wrote of the complexity of new devices and how hard they were to operate.

   She wanted to see things made as simple as possible.

   He thought about that for days and the concept started to take shape in his
mind.

   "What she was saying was the electronics industry is way too complicated."

   Mr Witehira says a lot of people are fearful of Internet shopping for
security reasons.

   "The whole psychology of Chaizer will change this," he says.

   The key to it working will be the appointment of brokers who receive the
e-mailed information and then seek out a deal for the client. It is they who
will see the order through to completion.

   The client's physical address, credit-ard details and/or finance arrangements
are already in place before the buying process starts.

   Other plans for Power Beat include rolling out a low-cost free space light
transmitter for telecommunication trunks and security surveillance.

   Mr Witehira says patents he took out for his Power Beat battery recently ran
out. There's a twinkle in his eye when he says he's thinking of reviving the
idea of producing the batteries again. That's the trouble with inventors, they
never give up.

   ---------------

   CAPTION:

   Say cheese: Hamilton inventor Peter Witehara with his new "Chaizer", a remote
consumer ordering system using a key-ring device which photographs a product and
e-mails the order away within seconds.

   Picture: WAIKATO TIMES

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              47 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Asia Edition 1

SECTION: ASIA-PACIFIC; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE:  Foreign anger at Nepal king's 'coup' PALACE TAKEOVER:

BYLINE: By RAY MARCELO

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

BODY:

   Nepal's nine-year-old conflict between the state and Maoist rebels is Asia's
deadliest: around 11,000 people have been killed, including 800 last December.
The country has among the world's highest rates of unexplained disappearances.

   To the outside world, the civil war seems as remote as Nepal itself, isolated
high in the Himalayas between India and China. But this conflict is no local
war. Washington sees the rebels as part of its war on terror. Neighbouring
India, the US and the UK have armed and trained Nepal's army, which is
controlled by Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah, the king.

   These foreign governments have bolstered state military forces as part of a
diplomatic effort to urge the king and political parties to hold peace talks
with the Maoists. Yet this peace process all but collapsed after King Gyanendra
dismissed the government and seized power yesterday in a "palace coup".

   India, Nepal's closest neighbour and largest trading partner, reacted
strongly, condemning the king for "violating" democracy in a powerful statement
that called for the restoration of political stability.

   "India has consistently supported multiparty democracy and constitutional
monarchy enshrined in Nepal's constitution as the two pillars of political
stability in Nepal," New Delhi's External Affairs Ministry said. "This principle
has now been violated with the king forming a government under his chairmanship.
"

   New Delhi said Gyanendra has brought the monarchy and mainstream political
parties into direct confrontation - a conflict New Delhi believes will benefit
the Maoist insurgents. Robert Templer of the International Crisis Group said:
"The US, the UK and India believe any solution needs to involve the king and
political parties. They say there is not a clear-cut military solution. But the
king's takeover is going to run against the wishes of these three governments."

   These governments may now review their military and development assistance
and explicitly link it to restoring democracy, as the UK hinted yesterday. But
the dilemma facing foreign governments is that any moves that weaken Gyanendra
could strengthen the Maoist insurgents.

   The rebels already claim control of vast tracts of Himalayan countryside and
have waged their insurgency in the name of democracy. They want an elected
"people's assembly" to draft a new constitution.

   But the king, and royalist politicians, know this is a step in their ultimate
aim to abolish the monarchy.

   Foreign governments believe Nepal's constitutional monarchy should be
maintained. But such support has been undermined by the corruption and
incompetence of the country's political parties. Foreign powers will have to
weigh their support for these parties against the ambitions of a king who has
openly distrusted elected politicians.

   It remains unclear whether the king has seized power for its own sake or
whether he will make his own attempt at peace with the Maoists. What is clear is
that the king has broken out of the gilded cage that limited his powers under
the democratic constitution.

   Some Scandinavian governments have proposed United Nations mediation, a
policy the Maoists support. New Delhi opposes this since it could open the way
for external mediation with its own leftist rebels.

   Yet New Delhi may still play a decisive role. The Maoists have fanned
nationalist rumours that Indian military intervention is imminent - though such
a plan is unlikely.

   India has, however, demanded that the king free political parties after
reports that armed troops surrounded the homes of leading politicians. "The
safety and welfare of the political leaders must be ensured and political
parties must be allowed to exercise all the rights enjoyed by them under the
constitution."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              48 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Asia Edition 1

SECTION: OBSERVER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE:  Gallows humour OBSERVER

BODY:

   There is not much that is funny at Guantanamo Bay, but a ruling released on
Monday yesterday from US Judge Joyce Hens Green that the tribunals reviewing
combatant status were unconstitutional had a hint of an Abbott and Costello
routine in it.

   During one hearing to determine whether a prisoner was an "enemy combatant"
the government asserted that a detainee was associated with an al-Qaeda
operative in Bosnia.

   But who was this mystery man?

   "Detainee: Give me his name.

   Tribunal president: I do not know.

   D: How can I respond to this?

   TP: Did you know anybody that was a member of al-Qaeda?

   D: No, no.

   TP: I'm sorry, what was your response?

   D: No.

   TP: No?

   D: If you tell me the name, then I can respond and defend myself against this
accusation.

   TP: We are asking you the questions and we need you to respond to what is on
the unclassified summary.

   D: You tell me I am from al-Qaeda, but I am not an al-Qaeda. I don't have any
proof to give you except to ask you to catch bin Laden and ask him if I am a
part of al-Qaeda.

   Green summarised: "The laughter reflected in the transcript is
understandable, and this exchange might have been truly humorous had the
consequences of the detainees' 'enemy combatant' status not been so terribly
serious and had the detainee's criticism of the process not been so piercingly
accurate."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              49 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

SECTION: ASIA-PACIFIC; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE:  Foreign allies express anger WORLD REACTION:

BYLINE: By RAY MARCELO

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

BODY:

   Nepal's nine-year-old conflict between the state and Maoist rebels has killed
about 11,000 people, including 800 in December. The country has among the world
's highest rates of unexplained disappearances.

   To the outside world, the civil war seems as remote as Nepal itself, isolated
high in the Himalayas between India and China. But this is no local war.

   Washington sees the rebels as part of its war on terror. India, the US and
the UK have armed and trained Nepal's army, which is controlled by Gyanendra Bir
Bikram Shah, the king.

   These foreign governments have bolstered state forces as part of an effort to
urge the king and political parties to hold peace talks with the Maoists. Yet
this peace process has all but collapsed now King Gyanendra has dismissed the
government and seized power in yesterday's "palace coup".

   New Delhi's External Affairs Ministry said: "India has consistently supported
multiparty democracy and constitutional monarchy enshrined in Nepal's
constitution as the two pillars of political stability in Nepal. This principle
has now been violated with the king forming a government under his chairmanship.
"

   New Delhi said King Gyanendra had brought the monarchy and mainstream
political parties into direct confrontation - a conflict Indian thinks will
benefit the Maoists. Robert Templer of the International Crisis Group said: "The
US, the UK and India believe any solution needs to involve the king and
political parties. . .. But the king's takeover is going to run against the
wishes of these three governments."

   The three may now review their military and development assistance and link
it to restoring democracy. But any moves that weaken King Gyanendra could
strengthen the Maoists.

   The rebels already claim control of vast tracts of countryside and have waged
their insurgency in the name of democracy. They want an elected "people's
assembly" to draft a new constitution. But the king and royalist politicians
know this is a step in their ultimate aim: abolishing the monarchy.

   Foreign governments believe Nepal's constitutional monarchy should be
maintained. But such support has been undermined by the corruption and
incompetence of the country's political parties. Foreign powers will have to
weigh their support for these parties against the ambitions of a king who has
openly distrusted elected politicians.

   It is not clear whether the king has seized power for its own sake or whether
he will make his own attempt at peace with the Maoists. However he has broken
out of the gilded constitutional cage that limited his powers.

   Kofi Annan, United Nations secretary-general, said yesterday he was "deeply
concerned" at the king's actions and called for immediate steps to restore
democratic freedoms.

   Some Scandinavian governments have proposed UN mediation, a policy the
Maoists support.

   India opposes this since it could open the way for external mediation with
its own leftwing rebels.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              50 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE:  The irresistible pull of a free and prosperous Europe MARTIN WOLF

BYLINE: By MARTIN WOLF

BODY:

   The defining moments of this year's World Economic Forum were, for me,
neither the hopes of peace in the Middle East nor the pledges of additional
assistance for Africa. I have heard both too often before. The inspiring moments
were, instead, the statements by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey's prime minister
and, still more, by Viktor Yushchenko, the newly elected president of Ukraine.
Both leaders declaimed their countries' European destiny.

   By virtue of their size and location, Turkey and Ukraine are much the most
important countries now requesting entry. Many in the European Union hope to
wake up from these twin nightmares. If they had been in that hall, they would
have realised the magnitude of their delusion.

   Mr Erdogan remarked that joining the EU would lead to a "reconciliation of
civilisations". Mr Yushchenko was able to state that "the people of Ukraine
declared that they chose to be part of Europe during the Orange Revolution". On
the wintry streets, millions declared that they wished to be free. What better
definition can there be of what the EU stands for?

   In Davos, these two impressive leaders stated the desire of their peoples to
share in the liberty and prosperity of contemporary Europe. That is what Harvard
University's Joseph Nye means by soft power. It alters a people's aspirations
and so what they demand of their leaders. Some question whether this is power at
all. Yet the name does not matter. Call it "attraction" if you prefer. What
matters is its palpable reality.

   In a contemporary democracy, power depends on consent. In Ukraine, we have
seen a demonstration of what happens when that is withdrawn. Non-violent protest
destroyed the legitimacy of a corrupt elite. As even the loyalty of the police
and the army dissolved, force became impossible to exercise. Soft power won
inside Ukraine.

   Yet Europe's attraction created that power in the first place. Turkey and
Ukraine prefer freedom to serfdom, democracy to dictatorship, prosperity to
poverty and peace to war. They aspire to join a club of states built on these
values. Such fervour deserves its obvious reward. Both these countries must gain
membership.

   In the immediate aftermath of the 60th anniversary of the liberation of
Auschwitz, we recognise the truth that many Europeans quite recently embraced
the opposite of these values. It must never be forgotten that the US then played
a decisive role in rescuing Europe from itself. Human beings are capable of
almost unimaginable wickedness. But we must believe in their ability to learn.
Europe, it seems, has learnt from its follies and crimes.

   The post-second world war successes of western Europe undermined the
communist dictatorships of the east, as they had earlier induced transformations
in Portugal and Spain. In the aftermath of their collapse, the aspiration to
join the EU then drove political and economic reform in much (though not, alas,
all) of central and eastern Europe.

   This then is the Europe that Turkey and Ukraine wish to join. Who could blame
them? Quite a few people, seems to be the answer. For, irony of ironies, as
Turkey and Ukraine seek to join, the UK may be on its way out. If the UK turns
out to be the only country to reject the new constitution that might well be the
outcome.

   What then motivates this deep-seated hostility? Part of the reason, no doubt,
is the pardonable British view of themselves as rescuers of Europe. Another part
is the sense of security of a country that has remained unconquered for almost a
millennium. Yet another is the sense of themselves as an island-people with ties
to the English-speaking countries across the oceans, especially the US.

   Nevertheless, there is another more contemporary reason: the belief that the
EU's economy is a calamity. If true, the desire of Turkey and Ukraine to join
would be quite foolish. It is not, however. The EU is not the collapsing
behemoth of fevered imaginings.

   A compelling indication of this truth comes from the 2005 Index of Economic
Freedom, compiled by impeccably conservative Americans.* No fewer than 10 of its
top 20 countries are EU members (see chart). Luxembourg, Estonia, Ireland, the
UK and Denmark are all ranked above the US. True, Italy is 26th and France 44th.
But this variation proves that the EU does not compel countries to follow bad
policies; it merely allows them, within limits, to do so. The UK's recent
success similarly shows that membership is far from a hindrance to good
performance.

   Equally, the EU's recent economic performance is less dismal than many
suppose. Output per hour worked is quite similar in the US and the
pre-enlargement EU of 15 members. Employment is rising in the EU, though the
proportion of the population of working age at work is still far lower than in
the US. True, according to the Conference Board, the business research group,
productivity grew a percentage point a year more slowly in the EU of 15 than in
the US between 1995 and 2004 (see charts). Yet several members managed faster
growth than the US or were not far behind.

   None of this is to suggest that the EU's economy is functioning perfectly.
Aggregate demand has been far too weak in recent year, while the economies of
the three big eurozone economies remain over-regulated. But the EU continues to
provide the opportunities for rapid catch-up exploited, in the recent past, by
Ireland, Portugal and Spain. More important, it has forced political reforms
across the continent. The EU has been far more successful in generating economic
and political reform in its "near abroad" than the US has been in Central and
South America. The EU offers the reward of a voice in the continent's affairs.
The US, at best, offers economic opportunities.

   The EU is an achievement for which many, including the US itself, can take
great credit. Its attraction to its neighbours is overwhelming. It is now easy
to imagine an EU with an aggregate population of well over 600m. Yes, such an EU
would be unwieldy. No, it would not be the great power dreamt of by many
Europeans. But it would also be more than a free trade area. Such an EU would be
a zone of prosperity, peace, freedom and democracy, stetched across Europe.
Turkey and Ukraine believe in it. Why should the rest of us not do so, too?

   * The Heritage Foundation and The Wall Street Journal martin.wolf@ft.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              51 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

SECTION: BACK PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE:  Ads have Super Bowl fans on the edge of their seats: US advertisers
are hoping to cash in on the biggest TV event of the year, without courting
controversy, writes Gary Silverman

BYLINE: By GARY SILVERMAN

BODY:

   The Super Bowl ads began early this year - more than a week before Sunday's
game - with a subtle tease from Anheuser-Busch that would have done an old-time
burlesque dancer proud.

   The US brewer revealed that it had decided against running an advertisement
for its Budweiser brand that poked fun at the big scandal of last year's
American football championship - Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction", which
left her breast bare during the televised half-time show.

   Budweiser said it was pulling the ad to avoid offending viewers. But then it
posted the "ad you won't see during the game" on its adults-only web page and
ran online ads promoting the parody.

   The result was the advertising equivalent of having your cake and eating it.
US newspapers reported that Budweiser had considered the public good and played
it safe, while the brewer offered young male beer drinkers a discreet peek at
its commercial. A quarter of a million people visited the Budweiser site on the
first day the advertisement was posted, said Bob Lachky, vice-president of brand
management at Anheuser-Busch.

   Advertising executives working for other clients say they smelt a rat. But Mr
Lachky maintained that the ad was dropped only after talks with the National
Football League and Fox, the network showing Sunday's game between the
Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots. He said the decision to post
the ad on the Bud site was an afterthought - although he acknowledged that it
might look otherwise to outsiders.

   "They are giving us too much credit for having that much foresight," he said.

   However, Budweiser's use of the Super Bowl as a platform to generate
publicity should hardly come as a surprise. The game is the biggest US TV event
of the year - 145m viewers tune in at some point.

   Advertisers this year are paying Fox an average of Dollars 2.4m (Pounds 1.3m)
for a 30-second spot - several times the cost of airtime on other football games
- compared with Dollars 2.3m last year.

   The advertising budgets testify to the ambition of the advertisers. In recent
years, the name of the game for Super Bowl sponsors has been to create a stir -
winning millions of dollars in free publicity in the process.

   This effort has been aided by an accommodating US press that treats Super
Bowl ads as an art form rather than an instrument of corporate communication.

   Mainstream newspapers such as USA Today conduct polls to measure the
popularity of Super Bowl ads, guaranteeing coverage for days.

   In this sense, Super Bowl ads can be seen as big-budget cousins of the "viral
" campaigns that have become the Holy Grail of advertisers. Like the viral
efforts, the Super Bowl ad is meant to spur discussion, attract imitators and
even encourage parodies.

   This trend has its dangers, as Volkswagen discovered recently when an
unsolicited ad appeared online showing one of its models being used by a suicide
bomber. But when viral campaigns work, they produce windfall returns. Bud's
"Whassup" ads generated about 80 online imitations, says Ken Kaess, chief
executive of DDB, the agency responsible for that campaign and the "wardrobe
malfunction" parody.

   Mr Lachky says there are usually 100-150 stories in US newspapers on his
company's Super Bowl ads. The Budweiser spoof took advantage of the two-week
break before the game when reporters have trouble generating fresh angles.

   "I think the Super Bowl is the original viral campaign," says Mark Tutssel,
deputy worldwide creative officer at the Leo Burnett ad agency. "It's about
getting everyone to talk about your ad around the water cooler."

   Industry executives warn that the event is not for everyone. Natural Super
Bowl advertisers fall into two categories. Because so many people watch the game
at parties, makers of drinks and snacks find it hard to stay away. Mr Lachky
says the week leading up to the Super Bowl typically sees the second biggest
sales surge of the year for Budweiser - after the July 4 Independence day
weekend.

   The game is also ideal for advertisers who are looking to make a splash. "The
Super Bowl is a good fit for clients who want to make a statement," says John
Osborn, president of the BBDO New York agency.

   The challenge for advertisers this year will be to show the flair of a
big-game player while avoiding the mis-steps of last year, when juvenile humour
- Budweiser trotted out a flatulent horse - combined with the Janet Jackson
incident to produce a high level of public disgust.

   Budweiser's "wardrobe malfunction" internet ad constitutes one response. But
when Sunday comes, DDB's Mr Kaess says his agency will be trying to "make
ourselves stand out".

   With all the money they are spending, advertisers can hardly afford to do
anything else.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              52 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

SECTION: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE:  BoxClever improves picture at WestLB: Clay Harris explains how the TV
rental company's receivership enabled the German bank to reduce its losses

BYLINE: By CLAY HARRIS

BODY:

   WestLB has been repaid Pounds 190m of what it was owed by BoxClever, the UK
television rental company that cost the German state-owned bank Euros 650m
(Pounds 448m) in write-offs and led to several executives losing their jobs.

   The bank has received its share of Pounds 180m in cash generated during a
16-month receivership under PwC and of the estimated Euros 200m proceeds of the
sale to Fortress Investment Group and Cerberus Capital last month. CDC of France
and CIBC of Canada, the other secured lenders to BoxClever, have also received
partial repayment, more than was expected when it was put into receivership in
2003. Other creditors owed tens of millions of pounds will get nothing.

   Robin Saunders, architect of the BoxClever deal, saw activity by her
principal finance unit frozen and later left the bank. Of her investments, only
Mid Kent Water remains to be sold.

   But BoxClever - created by years of consolidation that swallowed names such
as Radio Rentals, Visionhire, DER, Thorn and Granada - has survived, thanks to
restructuring undertaken by the receiver and a new boss he promoted from within.

   BoxClever was created in 2000 by the merger of the Granada and Thorn rental
businesses; the latter was owned by Nomura, the Japanese bank whose principal
finance business was then run by Guy Hands, now at Terra Firma Capital Partners.
The merger was financed by a Pounds 860m loan from WestLB that was later
refinanced through a securitisation where the bank took 60 per cent.

   Most of the money went straight to the previous owners, Granada and Nomura,
who are estimated to have pocketed a total of Pounds 650m. This left BoxClever
cash-starved and bearing the burden of heavy interest payments. Unable to
integrate the businesses, it had two head offices, two call centres and a huge
portfolio of property, including 600 former shops. BoxClever's annual rent bill
when it went into receivership was Pounds 32m.

   This structural weakness, a flawed strategy of pursuing growth through
third-party logistics contracts and a faster than expected decline in the
television rental market forced WestLB to appoint PwC as receiver in September
2003.

   From the moment he took over as receiver, Tony Lomas of PwC set about
restructuring the business, helped by the legal advantages afforded by
insolvency procedures, especially in dealing with landlords. "We wanted this
business to carry on," he said.

   Mr Lomas decided not to run BoxClever himself or to engage one of PwC's
turnround panel of external experts. He turned instead to Dave Cowan, a Granada
employee for 22 years, who was head of retail at BoxClever but not on its board.
"It's not often that you can find someone from the ranks who can rise to the
challenge," Mr Lomas said.

   Mr Cowan said: "I had been quite verbal in the run-up to receivership, and
the banks liked that. It turned out to be right."

   According to Mr Lomas, Mr Cowan's "feet were on the ground. He had a
realistic assessment of the state of the business and the way it could be taken
forward".

   Mr Cowan, in short, was a "frustrated chief operating officer" and that was
the job that Mr Lomas gave him, along with targets based on cost reduction and
customer retention. The previous executive board was released.

   The two main areas of cost cuts were in property and staffing. In addition to
the long tail of premises that it no longer used, and was losing money trying to
manage, BoxClever had 170 shops. All were closed within six months; BoxClever
now does all its business by telephone or online. It has a single head office
and call centre, both in Bedford.

   Mr Cowan and Mr Lomas, who is also receiver for Enron Europe and Versailles
Group, were able to call on the expertise of PwC's specialist property unit;
overall, more than 100 people from PwC worked on the BoxClever receivership.

   BoxClever's workforce was cut from 4,200 to 1,500 during the receivership.
Although Mr Lomas praised the flexibility of the workforce and of Amicus in
accepting changed working practices, the union said it was "very unhappy" with
the handling of the receivership. "They didn't take any account of employees,"
an Amicus representative said.

   Employees made redundant received only minimum government-funded payments
rather than what was due under their contracts. Mike Smallwood, the national
officer who dealt with BoxClever, said Amicus was campaigning to get the law
changed. But the union, which is still recognised, was happy that BoxClever was
out of receivership and "working together for the business to grow".

   Another step taken under the receivership was to terminate third-party
logistics contracts for customers such as Argos.

   For WestLB, BoxClever appears to have turned out better than its worst fears.

   And for Mr Cowan, being catapulted into the hot seat has paid off. He is now
chief executive of BoxClever, which has annual sales of more than Pounds 200m,
under its new US owners.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              53 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

SECTION: COMPANIES EUROPE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE:  Bondi adds Morgan Stanley to litigants' list PARMALAT FRAUD:

BYLINE: By ADRIAN MICHAELS

DATELINE: MILAN

BODY:

   Enrico Bondi, Parmalat's administrator, yesterday launched a legal action
seeking almost Dollars 140m from Morgan Stanley as he seeks to unwind a
financing deal that took place a few months before the dairy company's collapse.

   The legal action follows a breakdown in settlement talks. Morgan Stanley now
sees its name added to a list of more than 40 banks being targeted by Mr Bondi.

   Mr Bondi alleges financial groups played a role in prolonging fraud at
Parmalat by helping the company with loans and access to the markets. Yesterday
's action mirrors those already taken against UBS, Credit Suisse First Boston
and Deutsche Bank. All those banks struck financing deals with Parmalat in the
months leading up to its bankruptcy a year ago. They deny any wrongdoing.

   Morgan Stanley said it would contest the lawsuit. It said it had conducted an
"extensive review of our dealings with Parmalat . . . We believe that those
dealings, and the conduct of Morgan Stanley and its employees, were entirely
correct and that each of those transactions were initiated and carried out after
proper due diligence and without any knowledge of the insolvency of Parmalat".

   Mr Bondi's legal manoeuvre seeks to unwind or "revoke" a bond offering that
involved Morgan Stanley and Nextra, an arm of Italy's Banca Intesa. A successful
revocation under Italian law means the return of any money gained by a financial
institution as a result of its business with a company in the months before a
bankruptcy.

   Nextra is to date the only bank to settle with Mr Bondi, paying Euros 160m
(Dollars 209m) last year without admitting any wrongdoing.

   Mr Bondi's legal strategy has come under fire from some banks that are being
targeted and will also be shareholders in the new Parmalat. The future of all
the litigation he has started is therefore unclear.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              54 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                London Edition 2

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS BUSINESS & ECONOMY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE:  Watchdog unveils Pounds 1bn league table of scams FRAUD:

BYLINE: By BOB SHERWOOD

BODY:

   Fraudsters are cashing in on the house price boom with scams that persuade
would-be property investors to hand over thousands of pounds.

   The Office of Fair Trading yesterday revealed the "property ladder" scams as
it announced a list of the top 10 rip-offs that are costing many thousands of
unsuspecting Britons a total of about Pounds 1bn a year.

   Telephone lottery frauds and dodgy prize draws are also among the top 10
tricks that are giving the watchdog the most headaches. The OFT launched a
campaign to warn consumers not to be conned by plausible- sounding schemes.

   The property investment scams offer bogus property-dealing courses for
thousands of pounds. The schemes often also offer the opportunity to buy
properties, which are yet to be built and probably never will be, at a discount.
Other fraudsters offer to source, renovate and manage buy-to-let properties
offering big returns. But in practice the properties are near-derelict and
tenants non-existent.

   Telephone lottery scams, including the Canadian lottery and El Gordo Spanish
lottery, are among the frauds that the OFT receives most complaints about.

   The scams use the names of genuine lotteries and tell people they are being
entered into prize draws through unsolicited mail or telephone calls. They later
receive a phone call telling them they have won a big prize but demanding cash
for taxes and processing fees before the prize, which does not exist, can be
claimed.

   Other prize draws and sweepstake schemes take a similar form and ask for
administration or registration fees.

   The OFT said that many of the fraudsters were based overseas, which made it
hard for the UK authorities to prosecute them.

   Premium rate telephone scams are also high on the OFT list. The alleged
sweepstake wins or holiday offers require consumers to call expensive premium
rate 090 telephone numbers to claim their non-existent prize.

   Then there are the cons related to investment, offering the chance to make
money on shares, fine wines or gemstones. But they carry extremely high risks
and are often worth a lot less than the investment demanded.

   In "advance fee" frauds, cheats in Nigeria offer to share a huge sum of money
in return for using the target's bank account, ostensibly to enable them to
transfer money out of the country. The perpetrators will go on to empty the
victim's account or persuade them that money is needed to bribe officials first.

   Credit scams are another form of advance-fee fraud, which originated in
Canada. Although still relatively new in the UK, they have made the OFT's list
because of their potential to grow fast, as they have done across North America.

   Advertisements in local newspapers offer fast loans regardless of credit
history but borrowers have to pay a fee to cover insurance. The loan never
materialises.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              55 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 USA Edition 2

SECTION: BUSINESS LIFE ENTREPRENEURSHIP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE:  Beijing steps up the fight: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: The real challenge
is tackling counterfeiting at the local level, writes Andrew Yeh:

BYLINE: By ANDREW YEH

BODY:

   Gilheney razors. N-Mart Super Center. Future Cola. Starsbuck. If these
Chinese brands sound familiar, it is because their names echo some of the
best-known US brands: Gillette, Coca-Cola, Starbucks and Wal-Mart.

   Just as China has become a leading producer of everything from shirts to
semiconductors, it has also become the world's most adept imitator of foreign
brands and business concepts.

   Local brands such as Future Cola, Gilheney razors and Starsbuck are operating
in a grey area, where the distinction between legitimate me-too products and
illegal copying remains unclear - although some companies such as General Motors
of the US have moved to seek clarification in Chinese courts.

   America, the European Union and Japan have all criticised China's approach to
intellectual property rights and Beijing has promised harsher penalties for
counterfeiters.

   But just as legitimate businesses adapt to changing markets and regulations,
China's copycats are becoming increasingly adept at eluding the authorities. And
it is a lucrative enterprise for them: counterfeit products worth between
Dollars 19bn and Dollars 24bn are produced every year, according to an estimate
by the State Council's Development Research Centre, a government research body.
As a result, foreign direct investors are increasingly wary of sharing their
expertise with local partners. "They can copy anything," says Horace Lam, a
Beijing-based attorney at Lovells, the US law firm. "It takes them some time,
but they are getting smarter and smarter."

   China's copycats use a combination of strategies to outwit the authorities,
including employing several layers of middle-men, producing parts in separate
factories, churning out products at night and shipping fakes in limited batches.
Furthermore, says Mr Lam, "counterfeiters often benefit from the protection of
local officials. They can add an extra level of security by establishing
themselves offshore, like organised crime networks."

   Joseph Simone at US law firm Baker & McKenzie adds that enforcement measures
such as fines, raids and seizures have not been much of a deterrent.

   Boston Consulting Group, a management consultancy, says the "complex web" of
government departments charged with enforcing anti-piracy laws has helped to
undermine the drive against counterfeiting. While some departments have a
relatively clear remit, others have potential conflicts of interest. Industry
experts point to the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, whose
regional offices provide business licences and also police trademark violations.
Some bureaux are both understaffed and notoriously leaky.

   Beijing insists it is seeking ways of tackling the problem. Last year, only a
tiny fraction of the 10,000 or so intellectual property cases were brought under
criminal law. But counterfeiters now face tougher criminal sanctions, including
prison sentences. "The fact that the government has made such progress is
remarkable," says Li Mingde, a professor at the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences.

   The lack of adequate legal training among many Chinese judges is a weakness.
Nor are there sufficiently strong laws on trade secrets, making it harder to
prevent the theft of patents, trademarks and copyrights, according to BCG.

   Mr Li believes the problem partly reflects the evolving nature of China's
economy and development policy. At this stage of its development - which he
compares to that of the US in the 1950s and 1960s - China relies on labour
rather than innovation, which creates a climate in which copycats can thrive.

   Yet while they can see the threats to their business, many foreign companies
have been slow to protect their technology against counterfeiting. "If you don't
defend yourself, people will hijack your rights," says Mr Lam. "When we look at
the product portfolio of some foreign (businesses), we see the gaps. If you don
't spend money now, you will spend it later."

   US industry and trade officials have been among the most vocal critics of
China's policy on intellectual property, with complaints focusing on luxury
goods, software, entertainment and industrial products.

   US officials have made two demands: step up the raids on local manufacturers
and put more offenders behind bars. Yet some industry experts believe US
officials are getting little help from the companies they represent. "US and EU
companies have been doing a pathetic job in providing quantifiable information
to their respective governments," says one China-based lawyer. "Companies should
not be complaining if they are not providing data."

   Counterfeiting is a problem all over the world, not just in China. But in the
US and Europe, customs departments estimate that China accounts for the bulk of
counterfeit goods seized at their borders. Last year, US customs saw a 47 per
cent rise in the total value of seized counterfeit goods from China.

   Wu Yi, China's leading official dealing with intellectual property rights,
has repeatedly told his US counterparts that results will take time.

   However, there are signs of increasing international co-operation. The
dismantling last year of a DVD-exporting ring based in China would not have been
possible without the Chinese police and the US Department of Homeland Security
working together. This led to the seizure of some 210,000 DVDs and the
destruction of several warehouses.

   It will take years, though, for the central government to find ways of
enforcing its attempts to crack the problem at local level. One answer would be
for foreign companies to take legal action in China. The outcome would be
uncertain, but it would give them some control over the process. If Starbucks
wants to end any confusion with Starsbuck, it may have to act itself.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              56 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The Financial Times Limited
                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 USA Edition 2

SECTION: BUSINESS LIFE ENTREPRENEURSHIP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE:  China's copycats dig their claws in: From lighters to Peking duck,
nothing is safe, finds Andrew Yeh:

BYLINE: By ANDREW YEH

BODY:

   When it comes to Chinese copycats, it is always best to expect the
unexpected.

   While the counterfeiting problem is particularly acute in southern provinces
such as Guangdong, it can pop up just about anywhere.

   Moreover, counterfeiters have built de-centralised production and
distribution networks, creating headaches for foreign executives.

   "The concern about piracy increases as western companies ramp up their
commitment to China," says David Michael, vice-president of the Boston
Consulting Group in Beijing.

   The number of companies that have fallen victim to China's copycats continues
to grow. For example, local companies in the inland province of Hunan have
become adept at duplicating industrial pumps by Ohio- based Gorman-Rupp and
adhesive materials by ABRO Industries, an Indiana-based gluemaker. Meanwhile,
Zippo Manufacturing, the American lighter company, has seen its trademark
violated by counterfeiters in the coastal province of Zhejiang, a hotbed of
copycats.

   Imitations of other iconic US brands such as Duracell batteries and Viagra
are readily available, as are the pirated versions of Hollywood films and
Microsoft software.

   Yet Chinese brands are not immune, either, to counterfeiting. Recently
Quanjude, a restaurant famous for its Peking duck, noticed that a Shandong-based
company was selling pre-packaged cooked chickens under the name of Tongjude just
outside one of its main restaurants in Beijing.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              57 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Hostage claim Insurgents say they are holding US soldier

BYLINE: Rory McCarthy in Baghdad

BODY:


    An internet image claiming to show an American captured by Iraqi militants.
The US said no soldiers had been reported missing

    A militant group in Iraq claimed last night to have kidnapped an American
soldier and threatened to kill him if Iraqi prisoners were not released within
72 hours.

    The group posted on the internet what appeared to be a photograph of a
soldier sitting in front of a black banner with a gun pointed at his head.

    A statement posted with the picture said a number of other soldiers were
killed when the hostage was kidnapped and suggested the group was holding other
soldiers. The group did not say where the incident happened and there was no
independent confirmation of the kidnapping.

    "Our mujahideen heroes of Iraq's Jihadi Battalion were able to capture
American military man John Adam after killing a number of his comrades and
capturing the rest," a group calling itself the Mujahideen Squadrons said in a
statement. "God willing, we will behead him if our female and male prisoners are
not released from US prisons within the maximum period of 72 hours from the time
this state ment has been released," the statement said.

    The US military said yesterday that no American soldiers had been reported
missing in Iraq. "No units have reported anyone missing," said Staff Sergeant
Nick Minecci in Baghdad.

    The Mujahideen Squadrons is not known as one of the major insurgent groups
operating in Iraq. However, a group using that name last month claimed
responsibility for kidnapping a Brazilian engineer who is known to have gone
missing after an ambush north of Baghdad.

    Militants in Iraq have rarely kidnapped American soldiers before, instead
usually targeting westerners working as contractors or journalists. The only
American soldier known to have been taken hostage is Keith Maupin, 20, of
Batavia, Ohio, who was shown in a video in April being held by militants.
Another video in June showed what purported to be his murder, but the military
still lists him as missing.

    More than 100 foreigners have been kidnapped in Iraq in the past year and
although many have been released, more than 30 have been murdered.


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              58 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: 'I could have killed him - but he was the guilty party'

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan

BODY:


    When he heard footsteps in his hall at 5.30am last summer the last thing
Neil considered was whether he was legally allowed to tackle the burglar.

    The 35-year-old writer, who asked not to give his full name, described what
happened next:

    "I was lying in bed and I was terrified, but I was determined to defend
myself and my property.

    "There was nothing to hand to grab so I went into the living room where my
heart nearly stopped when I saw he'd grabbed my own hammer from my toolkit.

    "I screamed and he screamed that he was going to kill me.

    "You can never tell how you're going to react in that situation but suddenly
my adrenaline took over.

    "We grappled for a few minutes but it seemed like forever, and he hit me on
the shoulder.

    "Eventually he ran off, but I was scared there were others in the house.

    "When the police got there, I told them if I'd had a weapon I'd have felled
the guy with it.

    "They told me I should count myself lucky I didn't or I could be up in court
for assault, or he could have sued me if he'd tripped running out of my house.

    "At the time, the consequences never crossed my mind.

    "But I'm not sure this leaflet would reassure me.

    "In my case, the police didn't seem to know what they were doing and I still
feel that the law protects the guilty. I've been off work for months and I've
suffered severe mental stress ever since.

    "I realise now I could have been killed or I could have killed him, which
would have been regrettable but he was the guilty party.

    "He broke into my home and in my view, he deserved anything that was coming
to him.

    "You get paranoid and blaming yourself for not having more locks on doors.

    "I would still defend my home but I shouldn't have to.

    "The police should provide better security rather than putting the onus on
the householder."

    The leaflet issued by police and government lawyers


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              59 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Eco sounding

BYLINE: Paul Brown

BODY:


    Stonewalled In a letter to transport secretary Alastair Darling, the
National Trust's director-general, Fiona Reynolds, expressed disquiet at the
government's silence over the future of Stonehenge and the downgrading of the
A303 from a trunk route to a local road. Did it signal the abandonment of the
idea of putting the road in a tunnel to save the monument from traffic? The
department would not answer the question, but said the downgrading did not mean
anything. We shall see.

    Fight against flights Meanwhile, Reynolds was being punchy about the trust's
opposition to Stansted airport expansion (see top of page) and promised that the
largest conservation organisation in Europe, now with 3.4 million members, would
not sit by while the government ignored the value of heritage "as the social
glue which holds the nation together".

    For nature's sake As the biggest owner of coastline in Britain (704 miles)
and attempting to get bigger by buying Wembury Point gunnery range at Plymouth
Sound for £350,000, the National Trust is advising the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs on coastal retreat. Retreat is a fancy name
for letting nature take its course and not building giant concrete sea walls. It
will cost the trust land, but is good for nature.

    Life's a breach An example is a new saltmarsh in the Blackwater estuary,
Essex, where the two miles of sea wall was deliberately breached in five places
to flood 200 acres of agricultural land. It has proved a magnet for birdlife,
fish and rare plants and has won the 2005 Living Wetlands award for Essex
Wildlife Trust from the RSPB and

    CIWEM, the water engineers.

    Keep tabs on the big boys An essential guide to the world's 2,000 biggest
companies and their records on human rights and the environment was launched on
Friday by former UN human rights commissioner Mary Robinson at Davos,
Switzerland. It covers everything from activities in the Iraq prison scandals to
the Beijing Olympics. Take a look at www.business-humanrights.org

    Can they be trusted? Among the companies getting mentions will be two who
would like the following weighed in the balance: General Motors, which is
providing 13 fuel cell powered vehicles for New York, and oil giant Shell, whose
hydrogen arm will establish New York state's first hydrogen service station in
2006. Let's hope it is the shape of things to come and not greenwash.

    Paul Brown


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              60 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Sudan risks sanctions as UN lists atrocities

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Diplomatic editor

BODY:


    The Sudanese government could be hit by targeted United Nations sanctions
after the publication yesterday of a 244-page investigation into the Darfur
crisis which detailed horrific and widespread crimes against humanity, including
the systematic use of rape as a weapon of terror.

    The US is considering pushing for the sanctions following a four-month
investigation which put most of the blame on the Sudanese government and its
militia group, the Jan jaweed, for the destruction of an estimated 700 villages
and violence that has seen tens of thousands of people killed and 1.8 million
displaced. The investigators back up their broad conclusions with a series of
case studies. They list:

    * Reports of civilians being thrown on to fires to burn to death and others
having been partially skinned. Girls as young as eight were alleged to have been
raped.

    * In Kailek, south Darfur, the report said: "The commission has heard
credible accounts that those captured by the assailants were dragged along the
ground by horses and camels from a noose placed around their necks. Witnesses
described how a young man's eyes were gouged out. Once blinded, he was forced to
run and then shot dead."

    * Investigators interviewed several eyewitnesses at Kailek who confirmed a
joint attack by government soldiers and the Janjaweed in which women and
children were separated from the men, and both women and children subjected to
gang rapes for protracted periods of time. Eighty cases of rape were reported.

    * The report also identified, but withheld from publication, the names of
six members of the central government suspected of having committed
international crimes against humanity, eight local government officials and 14
Janjaweed.

    Leaks in advance of publication of the report focused on the conclusion that
the crimes did not fit the legal definition of genocide. But the report, when
read as a whole, shows the investigators regard this as largely academic, given
that crimes against humanity have been carried out. The UN security council is
to meet shortly to decide whether action should be taken against the Sudanese
government.

    The French government, which has a permanent seat on the 15-member council,
came out firmly yesterday in favour of bringing those responsible to the
international criminal court in The Hague.

    The US is reluctant to make a referral to the ICC, which it has not signed
up to, and is pressing instead for a special ad hoc tribunal, similar to the
ones for Rwanda and the Balkans. The US state department spokesman, Richard
Boucher, said the US had been talking to other members of the security council
"about further measures, including possible targeted sanctions that the security
council might want to adopt given the continuing pattern of atrocities and
violence in Darfur".

    A Foreign Office spokesman said: "It is a matter for the UN security council
to decide on the best way forward to ensure there is not impunity and bring
those responsible to justice."

    However, Britain's UN ambassador, Emyr Jones Parry, went further. "The
British position is that this is a case that is tailor-made for the
international criminal court," he said in New York. The report concludes: "There
are consistent accounts of a recurrent pattern of attacks on villages and
settlements, sometimes involving aerial attacks by helicopter gunships or
fixed-wing aircraft, including bombing and strafing with automatic weapons.

    "However, a majority of the attacks reported are ground assaults by the
military, the Janjaweed, or a combination of the two. Hundreds of incidents have
been reported involving the killing of civilians, massacres, summary executions,
rape and other forms of sexual violence, torture, ab duction, looting of
property and livestock, as well as deliberate destruction and torching of
villages."

    The patterns "indicate that the rape and sexual violence have been used by
the Janjaweed and government soldiers (or at the least with their complicity) as
a deliberate strategy".

    It found credible evidence of rebel forces also being responsible for war
crimes, but not comparable with the systematic and widespread pattern of abuses
of the government and Janjaweed.

    Leader comment, page 27


   LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              61 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Name out of whack

BYLINE: Nick Papps

BODY:

    MICHAEL Jackson's arch enemy during his molestation trial will be Janet
Jackson.

   But it's not his famous singing sister.

   Janet Jackson is the mother of Gavin Arvizo, the 13-year-old cancer patient
Jackson is accused of molesting.

   She recently married a US soldier, Jay Jackson, and has changed her name from
Arvizo to Jackson.

   In recent weeks Janet, Jay, Gavin, who is now 15, his brother Star, 14, and
sister Davellin, 18, have been in a witness protection program in the lead-up to
the trial.

   Last night news website Drudge reported Michael Jackson's lawyers claimed
Gavin and Star had recently been seen shopping in Beverly Hills with Santa
Barbara district attorney Tom Sneddon, the lead prosecutor who has been accused
of conducting a vendetta against the King of Pop.

   During the trial the boys are expected to allege Jackson molested Gavin with
Star claiming he saw Jackson walk around nude.

   Janet Jackson is expected to claim her family was illegally held by Jackson
in an effort to coerce them into an interview denying any molestation.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              62 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: 50/50

BODY:

    IF Mark Grayson ("Nightmare on the roads", January 31) thinks driving in
Melbourne has become a nightmare, he hasn't driven in Sydney.

   Still Shaking, Trafalgar

   JUST as our plastic bag problem improves, a major cereal producer starts
selling it in plastic bowls. So much for corporate compliance with environmental
initiatives.

   Paul Murchison, Kingsbury

   EXPENSIVE cars and mansions do not a champion make.

   Set Point, Cape Woolamai

   WHEN eating a sandwich, who is to blame when the filling falls out, the eater
or the preparer?

   Argument, Mt Waverley

   PRIMARY schools are at fault, not the socio-economic status of parents, for
the alarming number of illiterate children moving into secondary education. It
didn't happen in the good old days of the three Rs.

   Thomas Watkin, Burwood

   CAN'T decency come into naming racehorses in view of the latest cruelty to
cats? Fancy calling horses Dead Cat Bounce and Kill The Cat. Surely they can
find better names.

   Bluey, Ringwood

   I WAS interested to read that scientists had found the smallest fish known to
exist. They obviously have never visited my local fish shop.

   Howard Molson, Dandenong

   NOW that the Australian Open is over, I hope Tennis Australia will take steps
to curb screaming competitors, such as Sharapova, and the "tedious chanting" of
the Fanatics ("Courage, class, classic", January 27).

   R. Stone, Rosanna

   PAUL Keating described Andrew Peacock as a souffle that would not rise a
second time, so Kim Beazley must be a twice reheated pudding. Something fresh
would be preferable.

   Don Jewell, Cannons Creek

   WHY the concern about John Howard controlling both houses of parliament?
Doesn't Steve Bracks have the same control, and where were the shrieks of horror
when that happened?

   Judy Hale, Frankston

   A MALE teacher guilty of inappropriate sexual behaviour gets three years, yet
a female teacher who has sex with her student gets no more than a slap on the
wrist. Makes you wonder.

   Nathan Gardiner, Northcote

   A CHOICE between Beazley and Howard in the next election is like a choice
between eating a cat-food or a dog-food sandwich. Can't this country do better
than this?

   Daz, South Morang

   OBVIOUSLY, Bec Cartwright has no problem with the Rebound Ace.

   Courted, Keilor East

   HOW nice to see Belinda and Rove sharing their wedding day, with fans not
having to buy a women's magazine for pictures.

   No Black Umbrellas, Keilor East

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              63 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: OPEDIT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Freedom's triumph

BYLINE: Andrew Bolt

BODY:

    At last, democracy has come to Iraq. And still our sneering "elite" insist
it would have been better to leave the murderous Saddam alone

   THIS is what we who backed the liberation of Iraq dreamed of, but what our
"peace" movement tried so shamefully to stop.

   Millions of Iraqis on Sunday -- wonderful Sunday -- proved they would risk
death for democracy, showing that, yes indeed, Arabs love freedom, too. Just as
we insisted. Just as President George W. Bush said.

   What a thrilling sight. Freed from a genocidal tyrant, an astonishing number
of Iraqis turned out to vote, even though Islamist and fascist terrorists, who'd
already murdered dozens of election workers and politicians, unleashed one last
shoal of suicide bombers against the polling stations.

   Tragically, some 40 Iraqis died trying to get to a ballot box, martyrs for
democracy, but the terrorists could not stop eight million more from casting the
first free vote in their lives. The terrorists lost. People power won.

   Baghdad's mayor whooped: "I cannot describe what I am seeing. It is
incredible. This is a vote for the future, for the children, for the rule of
law, for humanity, for love."

   And none of this would have happened if we'd listened to our "peace"
movement, or to Labor, or to the petition signers, or to the United Nations. No,
Saddam Hussein would still be on this throne of skulls if we'd listened to the
Left.

   We now need to learn two things from this victory -- about Iraq and about
these teacher-preachers of ours.

   First, this election has exposed a truth about Iraq that even a hostile
Western media can no longer deny.

   Iraqis, their clerics included, do treasure freedom and the right to vote.

   The terrorists -- whose true enemy is Iraq's democrats and not the United
States -- are too weak to defeat them. With its economy growing fast, Iraq is
now likely to become the first true Arab democracy in history -- the beacon of
freedom the despotic Middle East so desperately needs.

   The tyrants who lead Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia, and who have fostered so
much lethal terrorism, must know their time is ending. Already this year we have
seen US-backed elections in newly liberated Afghanistan and in Palestine.

   All this is what we hoped for when we went to war.

   Now we see that this awesome gamble is paying off, and thousands of allied
soldiers and Iraqi police and civilians have not died in vain. Freedom is coming
to the Middle East, just as Bush promised, and we all will be safer for it.

   But hear those sighs? Back in Australia, our usual apologists for tyrants and
terrorists seemed barely able to hide their dismay.

   On Sunday, as Iraqi voters literally danced in the streets with joy, the ABC
television news started its report: "The worst fears of election observers in
Iraq are being realised."

   The next morning, the far-Left Age led its front page with a headline that
insulted all those Iraqis who'd defied the terrorists in numbers no one had
predicted: "Iraqi attacks deter voters."

   W HAT a slur on Samir Hassan, 32, who lost a leg in a car bombing in October,
but voted on Sunday, declaring: "I would have crawled here if I had to. I don't
want terrorists to kill other Iraqis like they tried to kill me. Today I am
voting for peace."

   Sorry, Samir, but the Age says you were "deterred", and on Monday did more
dirt on your courage by running an article by former UN weapons inspector Scott
Ritter, calling Iraq's liberation "a crime of gigantic proportions" and claiming
"the basic principles of democracy (were) mocked through an election process
that has generated extensive violence".

   Another Fairfax newspaper, The Australian Financial Review, ran two more
pieces on Monday by staff Leftists sneering at the election -- "No quick US exit
from quagmire" and "Election almost irrelevant".

   Hear that, Samir? Your vote was "almost irrelevant". It "mocked" the true
principles of democracy. Or so say fat-bottomed commentators in the West, safe
from even shame.

   How morally sick is our cultural elite to see so little to celebrate in the
liberation of Iraq. And this is the second thing we must learn -- not to trust
our own enemies of freedom again.

   How sick is this elite?

   Sick enough that the Melbourne Writers Festival two years ago invited
Trotskyist writer Tariq Ali to give the keynote speech, praising Iraq's
terrorists as "the resistance". Ali earlier demanded the murder of the Iraqi
"collaborators", who have since brought democracy to their country.

   Not sick enough for you? Then consider Australian "journalist" John Pilger,
who last year told us "we cannot afford to be choosy . . . We have no choice now
but to support the (Iraqi) resistance". Even our troops, he insisted, were
"legitimate targets", as were Iraq's police -- some of whom were killed on
Sunday defending Iraqi voters.

   Disgusting, but this moral pygmy was given a fawning exhibition by the
Melbourne Museum, was honoured by an Age literary luncheon and was introduced on
Jon Faine's ABC show as one of our finest journalists.

   Still not convinced our cultural elite is infected with a deadly disdain of
freedom?

   Then consider that last year's Sydney Peace Prize, sponsored by the City of
Sydney, went to anti-American writer Arundhati Roy, who declared: "We have to
become the Iraqi resistance."

   Consider that Monash University last year sponsored the visit of Yvonne
Ridley, the British Muslim extremist who calls suicide bombers "martyrs".

   C ONSIDER that a regular guest on Left guru Phillip Adams' show on ABC radio
is Robert Fisk, a journalist who was praised last year as "neutral" by al-Qaida
boss Osama bin Laden and mocked Iraq's poll as a "fantasy election" and "an act
of folly in the eyes of so many Iraqis".

   Consider that SBS reporter John Martinkus last year said the Iraqi terrorists
who'd briefly held him "are not savages" and had "a reason" to behead civilians.

   Consider that on the Friday before the election, The Age ran an article by a
cultural studies professor arguing suicide bombers were victims of "injustice"
who "die in the name of a better life for others".

   Consider all our academics and journalists who routinely give Iraq's
terrorists the heroic label "resistance". Resistance to what?

   We must learn to reject the toxic preaching of such people. They and their
sort told us not to confront communism, and were wrong. They told us not to
liberate Afghanistan, and were wrong. They told us not to free Iraq and
predicted defeat, and were wrong again.

   In every conflict with totalitarians they preached surrender. And were wrong.

   Just look again at the Iraqis celebrating their election, and remember who it
was that tried to stop you from seeing such wonders.

   Remember, and do not forget or forgive the enemies of this joy and this
freedom.

   bolta@heraldsun.com.au

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              64 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Woman claims rape by rapper

BODY:

    RAPPER Snoop Dogg is accused of raping a woman in his dressing room, it
emerged yesterday.

   The make-up artist claims to have been sexually assaulted by the entertainer
and his friends after the recording of a show for US television network ABC
News.

   According to legal papers obtained by website thesmokinggun.com she alleges
she was drugged before being sexually assaulted by the rapper and four of his
associates.

   She is seeking $32 million in combined damages.

   The complaint was filed at Los Angeles Superior Court just weeks after Snoop
Dogg (real name Calvin Broadus) filed a pre-emptive lawsuit claiming he was the
target of an extortion scheme hatched by the woman in question, the website
reports.

   The 12-page complaint details the circumstances surrounding the alleged
attack in January 2002 when Snoop Dogg co-hosted the Jimmy Kimmel live
television show.

   The documents name ABC News, the Kimmel Show, and the Walt Disney Company as
defendants, alleging the network is partly liable for the attack because the
entertainer's dressing room was stocked with "large quantities" of champagne and
marijuana.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              65 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: FREE REIN

BYLINE: Adrian Dunn

BODY:

    Stipes take Murphy case further

   RACING Victoria stewards have taken the unprecedented step of appealing
against a Racing Appeals and Disciplinary Board decision in favour of jockey
Garry Murphy.

   Last month the RADB quashed a seven-week suspension against Murphy for his
ride on Myamba Gem in a Class 2 at Kilmore on November 15.

   Murphy had been charged under rule 135 (b), which deals with a jockey taking
all reasonable and permissible measures.

   But, following a debriefing, RV chief steward Des Gleeson said the stewards
panel, chaired by Mark Hill, decided to appeal to the Racing Appeals Tribunal.

   "We believed it was a serious breach of the rules and the stewards believe
they should appeal that decision," Gleeson said.

   The appeal has been listed before Judge Elizabeth Curtain on February 28.

   Forget about Sydney TV blackout

   PLENTY of misinformation being spread as the deadline for a deal between
Tabcorp, owner of Sky, and TVN nears, particularly about looming blackouts.

   If, as expected, a deal can't be struck there will not be a blackout of
Sydney races from next Wednesday.

   Yes, it's true Sky will not have the rights to the Sydney race vision, but an
offer from TVN to continue carrying the picture is expected.

   And why wouldn't that be accepted? After all, betting is Tabcorp's core
business and it would make sense to capitalise on turnover during the peak
autumn carnival period.

   If Sky refuses it won't matter as TVN can supply the vision to Victorian TABs
and more than 2500 pubs and clubs throughout Australia.

   Digging deep for tsunami appeal

   RACING'S contribution to the tsunami relief appeal has reached $1.3 million
and counting.

   Victorians have led the way with about $450,000, with many more contributions
still tied up in various fundraisers.

   And RV chairman Graham Duff trumped his rivals with a $2650 bid to own the
unique Australia Day silks signed by all our champion jockeys.

   The framed silks now take pride of place in the RV boardroom.

   Apprentices all in the family

   FAMILIAR names among the latest intake of apprentices. Among the 10 are
Ashlee Beer, daughter of Les, and Stacey Rawiller, younger sister of Nash and
Brad.

   Sheer talent on show at Olympics

   FROM the believe-it-or-not file comes an update on Sheer Kingston, winner of
the 1999 Brisbane and Adelaide Cups.

   Last weekend at the Los Angeles Equestrian centre the 10-year-old won a
dressage event.

   Sheer Kingston was retired after bowing a tendon. Owner Ron Arculli, chairman
of the Hong Kong Jockey Club, wanted a good home for him and gave the horse to
Rachael Noonan, who looked after the gelding when he was spelling on a property
at Diggers Rest. When Rachael married an American she took Sheer Kingston with
her and he is on the hopeful list for the Beijing Olympics.

   Freeze put on monkey business

   WHEN Wayne Hawkes finally forked out for a share in a yearling along with
some of society's high rollers, like Gary Sweet, he volunteered to name the
colt.

   Hawkes was feeling mighty pleased with himself when he submitted Brass Monkey
as the name for the Redoute's Choice-Snow Harbour youngster.

   That was until father John unleashed a Group 1 spray along the lines that he
wouldn't be training a horse that carried such a moniker. No surprises who won
that debate.

   The colt made its debut at Randwick under the name Frozen, which we gather is
what would have happened to Wayne's inheritance had Brass Monkey slipped by
unnoticed.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              66 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: CONNECT; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: SURVIVAL GUIDE

BODY:

    How to import photos from your digital camera

   DIGITAL cameras were one of the hottest items at Christmas, and rightly so.
They are a fantastic, guilt-free way to capture your images.

   Using a digital camera is fairly self-explanatory. If you used an old film
camera you shouldn't have any trouble. But that is where the similarity ends.

   With digital cameras, you need to transfer images to a computer before you
can print or email them.

   Below are instructions on how to use the built-in Windows XP camera wizard to
make importing digital images a breeze.

   Before you begin, make sure you have installed the drivers that came with
your camera. Once you have done that put the camera in Play mode and turn it on.
Now plug in your camera and follow these steps:

   "Removable Disk" will appear. This allows you to either acquire, view a slide
show, print or open a folder with your pictures in them.

   Select "Copy pictures to a folder on my computer using Microsoft Scanner and
Camera Wizard". Click "OK".

   The "Welcome to the Scanner and Camera Wizard" will appear. Simply click
"Next".

   Now, select the images you want to copy (initially all are selected).

   Once you have selected the images you want to download to your computer click
"Next".

   Type a name for this group of pictures

   (eg: Trip 2005) and choose a place to save this group of pictures (eg: My
Pictures/Trips).

   Once you click on "Next" the computer automatically begins copying or moving
the images to the location specified.

   Once this has been done, click "Next", then click "Finish" until your new
images appear in a window.

   Once you have imported your pictures use your favourite image-editing
application to resize and edit them as required.

   DANNY GOROG is a director of computer training specialists Digital Survival,
ph: 9428 3229

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              67 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                   Copyright 2005 Kasturi & Sons Ltd (KSL)
                                   The Hindu

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: MAN ARRESTED

BYLINE: Our Staff Correspondent

BODY:



   The Venoor Police have arrested a man on the charge of illegally storing and
using explosives, including gunpowder, used in the manufacture of crackers.

   The police gave the name of the arrested person as Abdul Basheer Saheb (39).

   He was arrested following a raid on a house at Nadagodu Hattlabettu.

   The police said Abdul Basheer Saheb's brother, Sukur Saheb (50), a resident
of Hattlabettu Ankarottlu House, Yelliyanadagodu village in Bantwal taluk, died
on Saturday when explosives stored in the house accidentally burst. He was
packing them when the incident took place, the police said.

   The Additional Superintendent of Police, B.S. Lokesh Kumar, who visited the
spot, said the brothers and their father, Hanif, were involved in preparing
crackers.

   Hanif had given up the work because of his age. The victims' house was
destroyed in the blast. The Venoor Police have registered a case.

JOURNAL-CODE: FHIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              68 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                   Copyright 2005 Kasturi & Sons Ltd (KSL)
                                   The Hindu

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: TWO HELD ON CHARGE OF CHEATING

BYLINE: Our Staff Reporter

BODY:



   Sleuths of the Anti-Goonda Squad (AGS) on Tuesday arrested two persons -
Ravada Venkata Srinivasa Sagar and Eda Bala Babu - on charges of cheating
gullible people and unemployed youth by luring them to a scheme and making them
its members. Two computers were also seized from their office.

   The duo were accused of offering the scheme through a firm called ALGL
(Active Long Goal Life) Network Marketing Private Limited set up at Pichchaiah
Veedhi in Labbipet about three months ago. There was no board or nameplate, but
the business continued.

   <subheadline> Modus operandi

   </subheadline>

   According to the AGS Inspector of Police, V. Rajagopal, the modus operandi of
the accused was to lure people to join their scheme as members by paying Rs
2,997 each through DD. On receiving the DD, they would be given a gift hamper
and three coupons each worth Rs 999. The member could use the coupons to buy
articles available with the firm.

   Mr. Rajagopal said that domestic articles and goods of "substandard quality"
were being given to the members and the accused were asking the members to bring
new persons for which they would be paid Rs 400 per new membership. "They
enrolled over 1,700 members in three months," he said.

   Mr. Rajagopal told The Hindu that Sagar and Bala Babu had previously
conducted their operations in West Godavari, East Godavari, Warangal,
Mahabubnagar and other districts. They were accused of attempting to push poor
quality articles and goods like TV sets, washing machines, DVDs and electronic
goods.

   Sagar, hailing from Rajahmundry, was stated to be the managing director of
ALGL, while the other accused, Bala Babu, from West Godavari, was the director.
To gain the trust of customers, the accused bought computers, created a website
and enlisted the members' names in the site.

   They would tell the members that the firm would expand its business with the
help of field officers soon. As of now, there were no valuable goods on display
at their firm office in Labbipet, the police said.

   The accused were booked under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and also the
Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme Banning Act of 1974.

JOURNAL-CODE: FHIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              69 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                   Copyright 2005 Kasturi & Sons Ltd (KSL)
                                   The Hindu

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: WHEN GHATAM MEETS GUITAR

BODY:



   IT'S NOT very often that someone attempts to fuse the sounds of the mridanga
with a bass guitar or a khanjira with other percussion instruments, but in the
rare event of such a fusion, it makes for a highly elevating musical experience.
Five guys, who call themselves Om: The Fusion Band, have done precisely that.

   Fusion music in India brings names like Karunesh, Silk Route and Colonial
Cousins to mind. The Colonial Cousins duo was probably the first popular band to
introduce the concept of East vs. West in its music. Hariharan's classical
vocals and ragas blended with Leslie Lewis' punk and hip-hop sounds appealed to
the audience who were highly impressed with tracks like Krishna and Sa Ni Dha Pa
. Silk Route, on the other hand, was more mellow and had jazz and soft rock
influences in its sound. It shot to fame with Dooba Dooba , which featured a
soothing flute accomplishment. More recently, Karunesh incorporated folk tunes
in his world music tracks like Punjab . But Om: The Fusion Band takes a
different approach altogether.

   <subheadline> Debut album

   </subheadline>

   What is remarkable about the band's debut album is that the tracks (at least
most of them) don't follow the regular mukhda and antara (that's pallavi and
anupallavi in Carnatic music) pattern. This means that the song begins with an
instrumental intro and proceeds with vocals. But in the middle, it does away
with the vocals and proceeds as a jugalbandi between Indian and Western
instruments, and in some cases, a jugalbandi between two vocalists. This is
definitely something not many musicians have tried.

   Om was formed in November 2002 and consists of Amit Trivedi (keyboards),
Amartya Rahut (guitarist and composer), Ramnarayan (percussion and ghata),
Vishwanath (percussion and mridangam), and Shriram Iyer (vocals). The band,
before releasing its album, has performed at over 25 live concerts. According to
the band members, the versatility in their music arises from that of their
musical backgrounds, and each song is a result of the many jam sessions.

   The eight-track self-titled album (Times Music, CD, Rs. 195) begins with
Maula , a powerful, anthemic number that has instant appeal and stays in your
head long after the song has ended. The guitar sounds are highly impressive and
share honours with the ghata as the song proceeds. The second track Piya is soft
and has a lilting feel to it. Though it has a feel-good flavour running through
it, the lyrics speak of longing and sadness. While Son Chiraiya has a Bengali
folk music feel to it, Baadal recreates a typical south Indian kutcheri
atmosphere and as the song proceeds, the Indian marriage flute takes over along
with the keyboards.

   <subheadline> Knockout

   </subheadline>

   But it is a track called Tum Tana that is a knockout. Its unbelievably high
tempo and energy level makes your fingers snap and eventually you find yourself
dancing to the classical Carnatic vocals, which leads to a jugalbandi between
Shriram and Vinay Venkatesh (both on the vocals).

   Five guys sporting saffron kurtas, goggles, and gelled hair with mridangam in
hand, is definitely an arresting sight - and after this album, one can say, that
goes for their sound too.

JOURNAL-CODE: FHIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              70 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                   Copyright 2005 Kasturi & Sons Ltd (KSL)
                                   The Hindu

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: POLICE PROBING IRREGULARITIES' IN TRUST ACCOUNTS OF KANCHI MUTT

BYLINE: K.T. Sangameswaran

BODY:



   With the filing of the chargesheet in the Kanchi Sankararaman murder case,
the special investigation team (SIT) is now pursuing the matter relating to
alleged irregularities with regard to the accounts of various trusts, which the
police say, are "attached to the Kanchi Sankara Mutt."

   Police sources told The Hindu that several irregularities in the bank
accounts came to light when the SIT was investigating the murder of
Sankararaman, manager of the Sri Varadarajaperumal Temple at Kancheepuram.
However, the defence counsel has told the court that the transactions referred
to by the police have nothing to do with the murder case.

   According to the police, huge amounts were put in different accounts standing
in the names of the Mutt, trusts and endowments. Also, money was withdrawn from
various accounts. Funds received through endowments were used for non-religious
purposes and no proper accounts were maintained for receipts and withdrawals.

   The police cite half-a-dozen transactions of different trusts. For instance,
in a transaction between a trust and a property builder, Rs. 50 lakhs was
received by one of the trustees as advance for the sale of land. There was no
corresponding entry in the accounts books maintained by the trust. From another
trust account, Rs. 12 lakhs was received by a person cited as an accused in the
murder case. The amount, it was stated, was for funding the 70th birthday
celebrations of the senior Acharya, but no proper receipts or vouchers were
produced by the Mutt. Another Rs. 5 lakhs was received by a person, who was also
allegedly involved in the murder case, from a trust account after signing a
voucher, a senior police officer says.

   The SIT is to file the chargesheet soon in the case relating to the attack on
S. Radhakrishnan of Mandaveli in September 2002 in the Saidapet Court. About 40
witnesses have been examined in the case. Earlier, the police had planned to
file the chargesheet in January.

JOURNAL-CODE: FHIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              71 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                   Copyright 2005 Kasturi & Sons Ltd (KSL)
                                   The Hindu

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: U.N. REPORT: SUDAN'S CRIMES NOT GENOCIDE

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill

BODY:



   The Sudanese Government should be referred to the International Criminal
Court (ICC) for alleged crimes against humanity in Darfur, a United Nations
commissioned report has concluded.

   But the study, which is expected to be debated by the U.N. Security Council
later today, falls short of describing the situation in the western region of
Sudan as genocide.

   The report by a five-member commission, headed by the Italian judge Antonio
Cassese, is due to be published today.

   The study was set up by the U.N. Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, in October to
investigate whether genocide was being conducted in Darfur, where tens of
thousands have been killed and 1.8 million displaced.

   A U.N. source said yesterday the commission's conclusion was that the
testimony they took did not amount to proof of genocide.  But it does say crimes
against humanity of an ethnic nature have been committed and recommends going to
the ICC,'' the source said.

   <subheadline> Confidential annexe

   </subheadline>

   A diplomat described the commission's findings as hard-hitting.'' Another
diplomat close to the Security Council said: The Sudanese Government is not
getting off.''

   The report includes a confidential annexe naming members of the Sudanese
military and Government the commission identifies as perpetrators of the alleged
crimes. Though the Sudanese Government was given a copy of the report in
advance, the U.N. withheld the confidential annexe. The members of the
commission told diplomats they did not want to prejudice the outcome of any
trial by publishing the names.

   They also said the testimony they took was not under oath and therefore would
not stand up in court. -

   © Guardian Newspapers Limited 2004

JOURNAL-CODE: FHIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              72 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 2232 words

HEADLINE: THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD ACCORDING TO THE BASQUES;
 ARE YOU BAFFLED BY EUROPE'S MOST INTRACTABLE INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT?

BYLINE: MARK KURLANSKY

BODY:


    According to a popular Bilbao joke, a Bilbaino walks into a store and asks
for "a world map of Bilbao" The shop owner unflinchingly answers, "left bank or
right?" This is The Basque History of the World because Basques at times think
they are the world. They feel inexplicably secure about their place among
nations. But more important, Basques, while they are protecting their unique and
separate identity, always endeavour to be in the world.

    No word less describes Basques than the term separatist, a term they refuse
to use. If they are an island, it is an island where bridges are constantly
being built to the mainland.

    Considering how small a group the Basques are, they have made remarkable
contributions to world history. In the Age of Exploration they were the
explorers who connected Europe to North America, South America, Africa, and
Asia. At the dawn of capitalism they were among the first capitalists,
experimenting with tariff-free international trade and the use of competitive
pricing to break monopolies. Early in the industrial revolution they became
leading industrialists: shipbuilders, steelmakers, and manufacturers. Today, in
the global age, even while clinging to their ancient tribal identity, they are
ready for a borderless world.

    We live in an age of vanishing cultures, perhaps even vanishing nations. To
be a Frenchman, to be an American, is a limited notion. Educated people do not
practise local customs or eat local food. Products are flown around the world.
We are losing diversity but gaining harmony. Those who resist this will be left
behind by history, we are told.

    But the Basques are determined to lose nothing that is theirs, while still
embracing the times, cyberspace included. They have never been a quaint people
and have managed to be neither backward nor assimilated. Their food, that great
window into cultures, shows this. With an acknowledged genius for cooking, they
pioneered the use of products from other parts of the world. But they always
adapted them, made them Basque.

    ETXEA

    A central concept in Basque identity is belonging, not only to the Basque
people but to a house, known in the Basque language as etxea. Etxea or echea is
one of the most common roots of Basque surnames. Etxaberria means "new house,"
etxazarra means "old house," etxaguren is "the far side of the house," etxarren
means "stone house." There are dozens of these last names referring to ancestral
rural houses. The name Javier comes from Xavier or Xabier, short for etxaberria.

    A house stands for a clan. Though most societies at some stage had clans,
the Basques have preserved this notion because the Basques preserve almost
everything. Each house has a tomb for the members of the house and an
etxekandere, a spiritual head, a woman who looks after blessings and prayers for
all house members wherever they are, living or dead.

    These houses, often facing east to greet the rising sun, with Basque symbols
and the name of the house's founder carved over the doorway, always have names,
because the Basques believe that naming something proves its existence. Izena
duen guzia omen da (that which has a name exists).

    THE MYTH

    The Basques seem to be a mythical people, almost an imagined people. Their
ancient culture is filled with undated legends and customs. Their land itself, a
world of red-roofed, whitewashed towns, tough green mountains, rocky crests, a
cobalt sea that turns charcoal in stormy weather, a strange language, and big
berets, exists on no maps except their own.

    Basqueland begins at the Adour river with its mouth at Bayonne - the river
that separates the Basques from the French swampland of Landes - and ends at the
Ebro river, whose rich valley separates the dry red Spanish earth of Rioja from
Basqueland. Basqueland looks too green to be Spain and too rugged to be France.
The entire area is only 8,218 square miles, which is slightly smaller than New
Hampshire.

    Within this small space are seven Basque provinces. Four provinces are in
Spain and have Basque and Spanish names: Nafaroa or Navarra, Gipuzkoa or
Guipuzcoa, Bizkaia or Vizcaya, and Araba or Alava.

    Three are in France and have Basque and French names: Lapurdi or Labourd,
Benafaroa or Basse Navarre, and Zuberoa or Soule.

    An old form of Basque nationalist graffiti is "4 + 3 = l."

    As with most things pertaining to Basques, the provinces are defined by
language. There are seven dialects of the Basque language, though there are
sub-dialects within some of the provinces. In the Basque language, which is
called Euskera, there is now word for Basque. The only word to identify a member
of their group is euskaldan - Euskera speaker. Their land is called Euskal
Herria - the land of the Euskera speakers. It is language that defines a Basque.

    The central mystery is: Who are the Basques? The early Basques left no
written records, and the first accounts of them, two centuries after the Romans
arrived in 218BC, give the impression that they were already an ancient - or at
least not a new - people. Artefacts predating this time that have been found in
the area - a few tools, drawings in caves, and the rudiments of ruins - are not
proven to have been made by Basques, though it is supposed that at least some of
them were.

    Ample evidence exists that the Basques are a physically distinct group.
There is a Basque type with a long straight nose, thick eyebrows, strong chin,
and long earlobes. Even today, sitting in a bar in a mountainous river valley
town like Tolosa, watching men play mus, a popular card game, one can see a
similarity in the faces despite considerable intermarriage. Personalities carve
very different visages, but over and over again, from behind a hand of cards,
the same eyebrows, chin, and nose can be seen.

    The identical dark navy wool berets a so many men wear seem to showcase the
long Basque ears sticking out of the sides. In past eras, when Spaniards and
French were typically fairly small people, Basque men were characteristically
larger, thick-chested, broad-shouldered and burly. Because these were also
characteristics of Cro-Magnons, Basques are often thought to he direct
descendants of this man who lived 40,000 years ago.

    THE PROBLEM

    When the Basques first began appearing on the stage of recorded history,
even before there was a name for them, they were observed playing out the same
roles that they have been playing ever since: defending their land and culture,
making complex choices about the degree of independence that was needed to
preserve their way of life, while looking to the rest of the world for
commercial opportunities to ensure their prosperity.

    Long before the Romans gave the Basques a name, a great many people
attempted to invade the mountains of what is now Basqueland, and they all met
with fierce resistance. The invaders were Indo-Europeans intending to move into
the Iberian peninsula. It seems to have been acceptable to the indigenous people
that these invaders pass through on their path to the conquest of Iberia. But if
they tried to settle in these, northern mountains, they would encounter a
ferocious enemy.

    GURE

    The most important word in Euskera is gure. It means "our" - our people, our
home, our village. Cookbooks talk of our soups, our sauces. "Reptiles are not
typically included in our meals," wrote the great Guipuzcoan chef, Jose Maria
Busca Isusi. That four-letter word, gure, is at the centre of Basqueness - the
feeling of belonging inalienably to a group. It is what the Basques mean by a
nation, why they have remained a nation without a country, even stripped of
their laws.

    THE NATION

    Whatever the feelings in the rest of Spain, a united Europe is an idea that
resonates with Basques. although they are not always happy with the way this new
giant Europe is run.

    To the left, it seems too friendly to corporations and not open to
individuals and small business. The dichotomy between large and free, which
Victor Hugo promised would not exist, sometimes seems a reality. But the idea of
not having a border through their middle, of Europeans being borderless and
tariffless partners, seems to many Basques to be what they call "a natural idea
".

    "If Europe works, our natural region will be reinforced," said the writer
Daniel Landart. Ramon Labayen said: "The European Union represses artificial
barriers." Asked what he meant by an artificial barrier, he said, "Cultures are
not barriers. Borders are barriers."

    The borders around Basqueland endure because they are cultural, not
political.

    Basque leader Arzalluz said, "The concept of a state is changing. They have
given up their borders, are giving up their money. We are not fighting for a
Basque state but to be a new European state." A 1998 poll in Spanish Basqueland
showed that 88 percent wanted to circumvent Madrid and have direct relations
with the European Union.

    In the idealised new Europe, economies are merged, citizenship is merged.
But those who support the idea deny that countries will be eliminated. There
will simply be a new idea of a nation - a nation that maintains its own culture
and identity while being economically linked and politically loyal to a larger
state. Some 1,800 years ago, the Basques told the Roman Empire that this was
what they wanted. Four centuries ago, they told it to Ferdinand of Aragon. They
have told it to Francois Mitterrand and Felipe Gonzalez and King Juan Carlos.

    They watch Europe unfolding and wonder what has happened to their old
adversaries. Most of the political leaders endorse the new Europe whether their
citizens do or not. The Basques watch the French and Spanish give up their
borders and their currency and wonder why it is so easy for them.

    Why didn't Mitterrand worry about the "fabric of the nation being torn"? Why
does Madrid not worry about losing its sovereignty? And if they do not worry
about these things, why do they feel threatened by the Basques? The Basques are
not isolationists. They never wanted to leave Europe. They only wanted to be
Basque. Perhaps it is the French and the Spanish, relative newcomers, who will
disappear in another 1,000 years.

    But the Basques will still be there, playing strange sports, speaking a
language of ks and xs that no one else understands, naming their houses and
facing them toward the eastern sunrise in a land of legends, on steep green
mountains by a cobalt sea - still surviving, enduring by the grace of what Juan
San Martin called euskaldun bizi nahia, the will to live like a Basque.

    Extract from The Basque History of the World', by Mark Kurlansky, published
by Random House

    CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL CULTURE

    SEBASTIAN ELCANO

    (1476-1526), mariner, first to circumnavigate globe, showing the world was
round. Sailed with Magellan of Portugal, but completed three- year voyage after
he was killed.

    PELOTA VASCA

    (or basque ball), also known as jai alai, is the world's fiercest, noisiest,
most claustrophobic ball game. It is played against a high enclosed wall (or
fronton), and has been exported to North and South America.

    EUROPE'S FIRST DEMOCRACY

    Basques claim to have pioneered Europe's first democratic assembly a
thousand years ago when farmers and herdsmen demanded that kings of Spain
recognise their rights beneath an old oak at Gernika (Guernica). The tree was
felled last year after it died in August.

    MIGUEL DE UNAMUNO

    (1864-1936) - scholar and poet, famously defied fascist general Millan
Astray, saying: "Vencera pero no convencera" (You'll win but you won't
convince); sacked as rector of Salamanca University and died months later, a
broken man.

    ST IGNATIUS DE LOYOLA

    Founded Jesuits in 1534, canonised 1622. From ancient noble family. Lost leg
when shot while defending Pamplona castle from French. Converted to Christianity
after reading religious books; wrote a book on "spiritual exercises". Imprisoned
by the Inquisition for "promoting dangerous doctrines".

    BASQUE BERET

    The flat black floppy hat beloved of free thinkers worldwide. Known as a
txapela, essential protection against the siri-miri, the insistent leaden
drizzle that hangs in the valleys and seeps into your clothes and your bones.

    DANTZARI

    Men clad in white who execute high-kicking dances of honour and welcome at
big Basque events. And bertzolari, poets who improvise emotional sung poems to
crowds about whatever is going on, and whose challenge is matched by others in
the audience who sing back.

    CUISINE

    The French cross the Pyrenees to sample pastries and the traditional dish of
sheep cheese with black cherry jam, left. Basque cooks are famed worldwide,
their restaurants laden with Michelin stars. Specialities include salt cod or
bacalao (whose invention is hotly contested by the Portuguese).

    BIZARRE RURAL COMPETITIONS

    Stone-lifting, log-chopping and other bizarre rural competitions. Champions
capable of lifting cubes of granite the size of a fridge, or reducing huge tree
trunks to flying splinters in seconds, are hailed as local heroes.

    DELORES IBARRURI, LA PASSIONARA (1895-1989)

    The communist leader in the Spanish civil war who was renowned for his fiery
speeches, swearing "we would rather die on our feet that live on our knees" and
the slogan "No pasaran" - They shall not pass

    Research by Elizabeth Nash

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              73 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: MICROSOFT LAUNCHES NEW SEARCH ENGINE TO CHALLENGE GOOGLE

BYLINE: JONATHAN BROWN

BODY:


    TO GOOGLE has passed into modern usage as a verb that means to look
something up on the internet. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, was hoping
yesterday that we will soon be talking about MSN Searching instead.

    While its name might not trip off the tongue, Mr Gates launched his new
search engine with a huge fanfare, replacing the existing Yahoo! service which
comes as standard with Microsoft's msn.co.uk and unveiling a redesigned home
page.

    But it has a lot of catching up to do. In Britain, Google commands 60 per
cent of all online inquiries, while just over 10 per cent goes through the
Microsoft search engine.

    Microsoft has been remarkably successful at clawing back its position after
falling behind rivals in other aspects of emerging technology, such as web
browsers and graphical operating systems. It is crucial that it also does so
with its search engine - which the company believes will allow it to "control
its own destiny" - but it faces strong competition not just from Google, but
Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves.

    MSN Search was launched simultaneously in 24 countries and 10 languages,
backed by a major advertising campaign. Its secret weapon is the ability to
access Microsoft's Encarta encyclopaedia, with its 1.4 million entries. This
allows users to ask direct questions such as, what is the world's largest lake?

    Mr Gates, who is said to be worth £26.7bn, was meeting European
commissioners in Brussels yesterday in a bid to resolve an anti-trust ruling
against him which resulted in a EUR500m (£350m) fine last year.

    The EU competition commissioner, Mario Monti, ruled that Microsoft was
abusing the monopoly position it enjoyed with its Windows operating system,
found in 90 per cent of personal computers worldwide.

    It was ordered to strip down the Microsoft products it offered as standard
with Windows, removing Media Player from the bundle. Microsoft is in talks with
officials on how such a stripped down Windows should be sold to the public.

    The new Microsoft search engine has been under trial in recent months. The
company believes it can loosen the Google stranglehold by slimming down the
number of websites it offers for each inquiry and by fashioning it more closely
to meet each user's needs.

    Matt Whittingham, head of information services at MSN, said: "I think
consumers, maybe two years ago, were wowed by the fact that you could enter a
relatively obscure search term and you would get hundreds of thousands of
results. In fact, there is perhaps too much information out there and what
consumers want is results that are tailored to them. They want search engines to
be a bit smarter, to know where they are geographically and to alter searches
depending on the time of day and if they are at work or at home."

    Microsoft believes its search engine will also be more up to date,
refreshing its list of around five billion websites every two days compared with
every two weeks in other cases.

    Google, whose creators Sergei Brin and Larry Page became billionaires when
the company they founded was floated on the stock market last year, makes its
money through sponsored links - adverts which appear on screen when an inquiry
is made.

    THE TEST

    V What is the population of Peru? MSN Search had an instant answer:
28,863,494. Google provided 2,600,00 possible sites. Top of the list was an
outdated 26m.

    V What is the deepest ocean? MSN is instant: the Pacific Ocean, maximum
10,924m. Google's first offer misses the mark while its second reports the same
answer.

    V How rich is Bill Gates? MSN has nothing. Google shows a real-time Bill
Gates personal wealth clock. It calculates how much each US citizen has
contributed to it ($ 203.03).

    Conclusion: 2-1 to MSN, but don't ask about Bill Gates.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              74 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: THE WEDNESDAY BOOK: PORTRAIT OF PAINTER WHO WAS NOT THE RIPPER;
 WALTER SICKERT: A LIFE MATTHEW STURGIS HARPERCOLLINS, POUNDS

BYLINE: RICHARD CANNING

BODY:


    FIRST, THE bad news: Walter Sickert was not Jack the Ripper. If his life was
wayward, posthumous opinion of the artist has been no more predictable. The
typically perverse source of the painter-as-homicidal maniac canard, for
example, turns out to be one of his descendants.

    The thesis was widely aired by American crime novelist Patricia Cornwell in
Portrait of a Killer. It is crackers. Sickert's name was never associated with
the crimes during his lifetime. This was unsurprising, as he was resident in
France throughout the period of the Ripper's activities. One imagines Sickert
regretting missing the fuss and infamy that an allegation might have caused,
though his womanising, bad temper and proneness to debt produced enough of both.

    Now the good news - and plenty of it on every page of this magisterial, taut
and fresh book. Sturgis cut his biographical teeth on the briefest of artistic
lives: Aubrey Beardsley, who died aged 25. He has now, arguably, discovered his
ideal subject. It is a measure of how impressive his rendition of Sickert's
life, career and influence is that it feels more apt to argue that the artist
has been fortunate in his biographer.

    However uncertain Sickert's reputation may be today, it is important to
remember that there was no real heyday. His pictures have never attracted a
fraction of the sums now lavished on anything Pre-Raphaelite. Still, Sickert's
introduction of Impress- ionist themes and approaches to the narrow world of the
London art scene was of seismic importance. It would sweep away the aestheticist
tendencies of Sickert's first mentor, Whistler, just as decisively as Whistler's
influence on Sickert was displaced by that of Degas.

    Moreover, the legacy of Sickert's brutal Camden Town Group realism may be
seen in a trajectory of many of the most important postwar British painters:
Bacon, Freud, Auerbach, Hodgkin. When we are presented with a selection of
Sickert's best works he strikes us as fundamentally contemporary. The same
cannot be said for any of the Bloomsbury artists.

    Sickert turns out exactly what Sturgis claims: "a great man and a great
artist". Error and conceit, of course, are just as capable of great size as
virtue or truth. There is a good deal less than palatable about the man, and
Sturgis spares us nothing. What he achieves is strikingly comparable to the grim
truthfulness of his own subject's most effective paintings.

    Reading these 760 pages, you approach the art with greater insight, and the
man with more interest. As period context is a special strength, to stroll
around London in the wake of Sturgis's research offers many new and diverting
delights.

    The reviewer is writing a life of Ronald Firbank

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              75 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: BRITAIN'S LAND IS STILL OWNED BY AN ARISTOCRATIC ELITE - BUT IT DOESN
'T HAVE TO BE THIS WAY

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

BODY:


    Who owns Britain? Most of us would instinctively reply: we do. The British
people own the British Isles. This is a democracy, isn't it? But the facts tell
a different story. When you look at a map of the British Isles, you are looking
not at your home but at a land mass overwhelmingly owned by a tiny aristocratic
elite. Extraordinary though it might seem, in the 21st century, 0.6 per cent of
the British people own 69 per cent of the land on which we live - and they are
mostly the same families who owned it in the 19th century.

    When it comes to land ownership, Britain today is a more unequal country
than Brazil - where there are regular land riots. We are beaten in the European
league tables only by Spain, a country which largely retains the land patterns
imposed by General Franco's fascist regime. It's time we realised: this land is
not your land, from Land's End to the Scottish Highlands. It is theirs.

    This makes a mockery of the principles our society is supposed to be built
on. Very few people defended the idea of hereditary peers - so why should most
of the country's land be owned according to hereditary principles? For a system
of private property to thrive - and I believe it must, because it is the best
way to generate wealth - it has to be legitimate. There must be a relationship
between work and reward: if you work hard, you should be rewarded. But most of
these landowners have put in no work, and they are given a vast reward: the land
on which we live. And - even where wealth has been earned, as in a few cases -
nobody has earned this obscene amount of space on a crowded island. There has to
be some sense of proportion, or the idea of human equality becomes a bad joke.

    But far from redistributing land, successive British governments have
reinforced this inequality by subsidising the richest landowners in the country.
For example, a recent New Statesman investigation found that the
multi-billionaire Duke of Westminster - who has done nothing to earn his wealth
- is entitled to £9.2m in subsidies each year from you, the taxpayer. Kevin
Cahill, the author of an award-winning book on land ownership in Britain,
explains: "Money is being taken out of your pocket to enhance the assets of the
rich, who, in their role as landowners, pay no tax. This is a massive scandal."
Yesterday, Tony Blair was talking about weaning poor people in Britain off
disability benefit. How about taking the land-owning aristocracy off welfare
before we start turning on poor people desperate for their extra £50 a week?

    Only one part of Britain has woken up to this national scandal so far -
Scotland. This week, the Highland community of Lochinver is voting on whether
they want to buy 40,000 acres of land that currently belongs to the Vestey
family, a bunch of staggeringly rich corned beef tycoons. This right was granted
to the local community by the Scottish Parliament when it introduced a Land
Reform Act in 2003. The legislation abolished the feudal system where tenants
were referred to as "vassals" and landowners as "superiors". And in addition to
getting rid of the formal trappings of feudalism, the Act made it possible to
erode the grip of these predominantly feudal families on Scottish land.

    The new laws are simple. They ensure that whenever a large slice of rural
land is placed on the market, the local community has the democratic right to
claim it for themselves. If more than 50 per cent of locals vote to take the
land, and if they can raise 50 per cent of the price themselves with business
plans, the Highland Council (or the relevant local authority) will provide the
remaining funds. If the community votes to buy over the next few days, the
Vesteys will be legally forbidden to flog the land to the highest bidder. In
other words, a transfer of the land from elite to elite will not be allowed.

    In this instance, the Vesteys want to sell, but even if they didn't there is
some provision in the legislation for communities to force a "hostile buy-out"
if they can demonstrate it is in the public interest. Crofters, for example, can
vote to buy and run the land they live and work on even if the landlord refuses
to sell.

    This package of land redistribution is even more desperately needed in
Scotland than in the rest of Britain: just 103 people own 30 per cent of the
entire country. The new laws will very slowly erode this vast inequality over
the next century, as more and more communities claim the land for themselves to
be run as community trusts or shared property.

    Of course, there has been howling from the Scottish Tories about this
"Mugabe-style land grab" and "attack on property rights". True, land
redistribution has a bad reputation and a bad history. In the name of stripping
land away from a tiny landed elite and giving it to the people, 30 million
people died in China. Today, thousands are dying in its name in Zimbabwe, and
the issue is threatening to destabilise many parts of South America and even
Africa's most successful democracy, South Africa.

    But far from being an argument against the Scottish laws, we should be glad
that a peaceful mechanism of redistribution is being pioneered here. Land
redistribution is an urgent cause across the world, particularly for the poor -
and in Scotland, they are showing how it can be done in a democratic way,
without violence. The problem with Robert Mugabe's policy is not - as the right
usually implies - with the very idea of redistributing land. When Zimbabwe was
established in 1979, just 1 per cent of the population (the white men) owned 60
per cent of the land, including all the most fertile and profitable acres. Most
of it had been violently seized just a generation or two before. Does anybody
think that was a just or sustainable situation?

    But the problems with Mugabe's model of psycho-redistribution are clear. He
is not giving land to ordinary Zimbabweans; he is claiming much of it for
himself (under the name of "nationalisation") and giving the rest to a fetid
elite of Zanu-PF cronies. His policy has been enforced by armed thugs who have
butchered their way across the Zimbabwean countryside.

    But now, peasants and poor people across the world need not look to Mugabe
or Mao or other tyrants for a way to take land back from the rich. Instead, they
can look to this new kilt-wearing redistribution through the ballot box.

    It could hardly come at a better time. In most countries in the world, land
is not being democratised and spread across the population. In fact, the World
Bank and International Monetary Fund have been imposing policies on poor
countries that actually increase the concentration of land ownership and make
more people into landless peasants. In Colombia, for example, the 0.4 per cent
who make up the Colombian elite now owns 61 per cent of the country - an
increase of 30 per cent in the past decade. On the IMF's instructions, South
Africa still has apartheid-level inequality in land ownership, with just 4 per
cent of farmland being redistributed from white to black.

    Has the Scottish model ever been needed more? It is time to take the high
road to a more equal Britain - and a more equal world.

    J.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              76 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: OBITUARY: ERIC GRIFFITHS;
 QUARRY MAN WHO MADE WAY FOR GEORGE HARRISON

BYLINE: SPENCER LEIGH

HIGHLIGHT:
Griffiths, left, and John Lennon performing with the Quarry Men in 1957, the day
Lennon met Paul McCartney Geoff Rhind / Scorpion

BODY:


    THE EVOLUTION of the Beatles line-up into John, Paul, George and Ringo was
by no means clear-cut. What began as John Lennon's 1957 skiffle group, the
Quarry Men, went through 16 changes in personnel and several names to arrive at
the famed quartet in August 1962. Pete Best was the unluckiest member, being
replaced at the brink of fame; Stuart Sutcliffe was the unlikeliest member, as
his talent lay in art; but the Quarry Men themselves would not have come into
being without Eric Griffiths's staunch support.

    He remained in its ranks for 15 months, finally leaving the group in 1958,
shortly after George Harrison's arrival, and nearly five years before the
Beatles' first big success.

    Griffiths was born in Denbigh in 1940 and his father, a fighter pilot, was
killed in action a few months later. After the Second World War, his mother
moved to the Liverpool suburb of Bootle with Eric and his sister Joan. When Eric
was 10, the family had a further move to Woolton and, on his first day at Quarry
Bank High School, Eric met two rebellious pupils, John Lennon and Pete Shotton.
They grew up with an interest in girls, clothes and cigarettes, and, come 1956,
the skiffle music of Lonnie Donegan.

    "We both went to a guitar teacher in Hunts Cross," Griffiths recalled,

    but the idea of trying to play the guitar properly and not being able to get
a tune out of it for some time was pretty boring. John's mother retuned our
guitar strings and

    showed us her banjo chords and we played in that manner until Paul McCartney
joined. We were more interested in playing than learning.

    With another Quarry Bank schoolboy, Rod Davis, on banjo and an outsider,
Colin Hanton, on drums, they became the Quarry Men and various members came and
went on the tea-chest bass until the role was filled by Len Garry. Their early
performances included an audition on the Carroll Levis Discoveries show at the
Liverpool Empire, although neither Levis nor the audience recognised their
talent that night.

    On 6 July 1957, the Quarry Men played St Peter's Church fete in Woolton.
This involved three appearances in one day: performing on the back of a lorry in
the procession around the suburb, playing in a tent in a large field and
providing the evening entertainment in the church hall. It was a fair assignment
for an untried act but they did satisfactorily, being appreciated by their
schoolfriends. The day proved significant, too, as the occasion when Lennon
first met Paul McCartney.

    By now the group's repertoire was expanding. According to Griffiths,

    John was the leader and so what he sang dictated the repertoire, but he knew
that we could only play what we could manage on our instruments. The skiffle
songs were the easiest to play but, by the time of the fete, we were playing
Elvis Presley's hits, which were a little bit more difficult.

    Skiffle was tolerated by jazz fans at the Cavern club, but, when the Quarry
Men appeared in August 1958, the club's manager, Alan Sytner, sent a note to the
stage, "Cut out the bloody rock'n'roll."

    When the 15-year-old guitarist George Harrison joined the group in 1958,
Griffiths was asked to switch to bass, but the expense would have been too much
for his mother. Griffiths left the Quarry Men to become an officer cadet in the
Merchant Navy. In 1963, serving in the Persian Gulf, he heard on the radio the
Beatles' "Please Please Me" - their first big hit.

    Griffiths found his niche when he joined the prison service in 1967. He
reported on the productivity of prisoners and became the head of Planning and
Promotion for the prison service in Scotland. But he felt that his lack of
formal qualifications prevented him from rising higher in the Civil Service, and
in 1985 he bought a launderette and developed a chain of dry cleaners around
Edinburgh. In 1993 he took redundancy from the Civil Service and built up his
chain of CareClean shops.

    In 1997, Griffiths's life changed again when he attended a party for the
40th anniversary of the Cavern. He was reunited with Shotton, Garry, Hanton and
Davis and, after an impromptu set, they reformed as the Quarry Men for the next
fete at St Peter's Church. Their success led to appearances at Beatle
conventions and they toured the UK, North and South America and Japan. In 1997
they recorded their first album, Get Back - Together (1997), which was followed
last year by Songs We Remember. The Beatles' official biographer, Hunter Davies,
wrote a biography of the band, The Quarrymen (2001).

    Their performances were shambolic, but that was part of their charm. If they
had practised and become more proficient, it would not have been like the Quarry
Men circa 1957 and so they would have missed the point. Griffiths had a crumpled
face but he still had the mop of thick brown hair that he had had back then. He
was too taciturn to be much of a stage performer but he was always courteous
with fans.

    When I saw the Quarry Men give a two-hour concert in the Paul McCartney
Auditorium at the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts in 2000, I asked
Griffiths if they sounded like they did in 1957. "Yes, we were pretty awful back
then, much the same as tonight," he replied.

    Eric Ronald Griffiths, guitarist and singer: born Denbigh 31 October 1940;
married (three sons); died Edinburgh 29 January 2005.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              77 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: OBITUARY: LUCIEN CARR;
 LAST ORIGINAL MEMBER OF THE BEATS

BYLINE: PATRICIA CREMINS

HIGHLIGHT:
 Shakespeare reborn almost': Carr, centre, with William Burroughs, left, and
Allen Ginsberg in 1953 Allen Ginsberg / Corbis

BODY:


    LUCIEN CARR was the last survivor of the original members of the Beat
generation. Although Carr was not a writer himself, he had a strong influence on
the novelist Jack Kerouac, and on the poet Allen Ginsberg when they were
students together at Columbia University in New York. During a seminal and
tumultuous year in the mid-1940s Carr seemed to embody the elements that the
Beats took on as their abiding literary aesthetic: a fascination with criminal
low-life, and a kind of visionary poetic Romanticism.

    Ginsberg tells of meeting Carr in 1943 after hearing the music of Brahms
pouring from his college dormitory. He was "the most angelic kid I ever saw".
Kerouac, who became friends with both men around the same time, described Carr,
with characteristic exuberance, as a man "with complete intelligence, language
pouring out of him, Shakespeare reborn almost, golden hair with a halo around it
". It was Carr who introduced Kerouac to the mystical literary theories of
William Butler Yeats, from whom Kerouac borrowed the idea of "automatic writing"
that he would use in his 1957 novel On the Road.

    Carr grew up in St Louis, where he was raised by his wealthy mother in an
atmosphere of upper-class privilege. He never knew his father, who walked out on
the family when Lucien was two. Through Carr William Burroughs, also from a
well-to-do St Louis family, met the other Beat writers.

    A persistent legacy of the Beats is the romantic idea of the artist as
social outlaw. Carr passed on to his writer friends his infatuation with
Rimbaud, who exemplified this idea. A few months into his friendship with Carr,
Ginsberg wrote in his journal:

    Know these words and you speak the Carr language: fruit, phallus, clitoris,
cacoethes, feces, foetus, womb, Rimbaud.

    The gem in this lexicon, as the cultural historian James Campbell points
out, is " cacoethes', an uncontrollable urge, especially for something harmful".

    In August 1944, Carr became something of a cause celebre when he murdered
David Kammerer, an older admirer who had been sexually obsessed with Carr since
he was 12 years old. Kammerer followed Carr to New York where Carr stabbed him
to death with a boy-scout knife in Riverside Park. He then rolled the body into
the Hudson River.

    Carr confessed the crime to Burroughs and to Kerouac, who helped him to
dispose of the knife. As a result, both writers were arrested as accessories to
murder. Carr claimed self-defence. He was convicted of manslaughter and served
two years in prison.

    After his release, Carr took pains to distance himself from the Beat scene.
To the dismay of his old friends, he became a conventional newspaperman at
United Press International. Carr was included in the dedication of the first
edition of Ginsberg's famous poem Howl, but insisted that his name be removed
from subsequent printings. He is often cited as having given Kerouac the scroll
on which Kerouac typed the first draft of On the Road - apparently the novel was
written on teletype paper taken from a shelf at the UPI offices.

    As the legend of the Beats grew, Carr asked his friends to refrain from
mentioning him as part of the group. However, characters based on Carr appeared
in Kerouac's fiction. In his novel Vanity of Duluoz (1968), Kerouac recounts
some of Carr's youthful antics, such as the time Carr rolled Kerouac down
Broadway in a beer keg.

    His private relationships with the three central Beat writers, however,
remained close to the end of their lives. He was a confidant, and an early
reader of their work.

    Ginsberg once wrote down a song that Lucien Carr liked to sing: "Violate me
/ in violent times / the vilest way that you know. / Ruin me / ravage me / on me
no mercy bestow."

    Lucien Carr, journalist: born St Louis, Missouri 1 March 1925; staff, United
Press International 1946-93; twice married (three sons); died Washington, DC 28
January 2005.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              78 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: TENNIS: FALSE DAWN AS HINGIS SERVES UP TANTALISING GLIMPSE OF A LOST
TALENT

BYLINE: TENNIS BY JOHN ROBERTS

HIGHLIGHT:
Martina Hingis, the former world No 1, looks for inspiration during her 1-6,
6-2, 6-2 defeat by Marlene Weingartner in Thailand yesterday Reuters

BODY:


    THE TENTATIVE steps taken by Martina Hingis at the Volvo Women's Open in
Pattaya yesterday may, or may not, prove to be the first in several comebacks by
the Swiss former prodigy. But the signs of a revival were not encouraging, and
nor were her words.

    "At this point I have no plans to play any more tournaments," Hingis said
after losing to Marlene Weingartner, of Germany, in her first competitive match
since retiring two years ago because of ankle problems.

    Deprived children in Thailand will benefit from the 24-year-old Hingis'
participation in the event, which she entered as a charitable gesture, leaving
the media to speculate that it represented a new beginning for the youngest No 1
in history.

    Considering the length of Hingis' absence from the WTA Tour, a first round
defeat, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2, was reasonable, even though the 25-year-old Weingartner,
ranked 73rd, is not a player to send Sharapova and the Williams sisters running
for cover. As was the case when Hingis began to be over- powered by her peers,
the spirit was willing but the serve was weak.

    "I've never had plans further than this step," Hingis said. "Maybe I'll play
some exhibition tournaments. That's my plan at the moment." She will continue to
keep in touch by commentating and conducting coaching clinics and will try to
satisfy her competitive instincts by riding in minor showjumping events.

    It is startling to realise that Hingis is only one year older than her
compatriot Roger Federer, the greatest talent in men's tennis, and to recall her
triumph at Wimbledon in 1997 when, at the age of 16, she became the youngest
singles champion since the 15-year-old Lottie Dod, who only had to win three
games to take the title in 1887. Hingis went on to win five Grand Slam singles,
failing only at the French Open, where she lost in the final twice. She was
world No 1 for a total of 209 weeks and won 40 singles titles and 36 in doubles.

    In 2001, her lawyers began litigation against the Italian sportswear company
Sergio Tacchini, claiming their shoes had damaged her feet. She had operations
on her ankles, in 2001 and May 2002, which led to her retirement. Before
yesterday, her last match on the WTA Tour was a 6- 3, 6-1, defeat to Elena
Dementieva, of Russia, in Filderstadt in October 2002.

    Although Hingis was able to capitalise on Weingartner's errors in the
opening set yesterday, there was only one moment in the match when she caused
damage. Leading 2-1 in the second set, Hingis went up 40-0 on Weingartner's
serve by hitting a smash so hard that it removed several letters of her opponent
's name on the scoreboard. Hingis then lost nine of the next 10 points to go
behind 3-2, and never recovered.

    Having played her first professional tournament at 14, Hingis won a total of
£10m in official career prize money and earned millions more from endorsements.
As she said last year: "I can start my life off doing the things I want to do,
and also being able to pay for them, I'm not like a student having to struggle
for the rent."

    l Monica Seles, absent from the WTA Tour since May 2003 with a foot injury,
lost 6-4, 6-4, to Martina Navratilova in an exhibition match in Wellington, New
Zealand, yesterday.

    TOP TO BOTTOM HINGIS'S CAREER

    1994: Beats Patty Fendick 6-4, 6-3 on her debut, aged 14 years four days.

    1997: Youngest woman to win a Grand Slam with 6-2, 6-2 victory over Mary
Pierce at the Australian Open (pictured). Wins Wimbledon and US Open.

    1998: Wins Australian Open. But a sprained left ankle ends 80-week run as
the world No 1.

    1999: Wins Australian Open.

    2001: Surgery on right ankle.

    2002: Surgery on left ankle. Plays "last" match of her career in
Filderstadt, losing 6-3, 6-1 to Elena Dementieva in second round.

    2003: Retires citing ongoing pain from ankle injuries.

    Yesterday: Plays in Thailand Open, losing 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 to Marlene
Weingartner.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              79 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL: BIRMINGHAM DEBUT FOR PANDIANI

BYLINE: NICK HARRIS

BODY:


    WALTER PANDIANI is likely to make his debut for Birmingham City against
Southampton tonight after completing his last-minute loan signing from Deportivo
La Coruna just before the transfer window closed at midnight on Monday.

    "The transfer came very late, and we had to get people out of bed," the
Birmingham manager, Steve Bruce, said yesterday of his new 28-year-old Uruguayan
striker. "We didn't think it was going to be possible at one stage. I heard that
he was on the verge of a move to Fiorentina, but somehow that went by the
wayside. We've got somebody who will intrigue the whole of football. This is a
big name and a big player in Spain. He's a very, very good striker."

    Bruce has also signed Mehdi Nafti, a 26-year-old Tunisian international, on
loan from Racing Santander. Arsenal's Jermaine Pennant could follow, depending
on the outcome of the winger's court case for drink-driving and driving while
disqualified.

    In the Championship, West Ham United have signed a 19-year-old goalkeeper,
Dusan Kuciak, on loan until the end of the season from Slovakia's MSK Zilina.

    The Celtic defender Bobo Balde, who had been tipped to move to England
during the transfer window, signed a four-and-a-half year contract extension
yesterday.

    "My heart has been with Celtic for some time and that was a big factor in my
decision," Balde said. "I want to help Celtic try to retain the championship and
again experience big European matches as we have done in the recent past."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              80 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: MICROSOFT LAUNCHES NEW SEARCH ENGINE TO CHALLENGE GOOGLE

BYLINE: JONATHAN BROWN

BODY:


    TO GOOGLE has passed into modern usage as a verb that means to look
something up on the internet. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, was hoping
yesterday that we will soon be talking about MSN Searching instead.

    While its name might not trip off the tongue, Mr Gates launched his new
search engine with a huge fanfare, replacing the existing Yahoo! service which
comes as standard with Microsoft's msn.co.uk and unveiling a redesigned home
page.

    But it has a lot of catching up to do. In Britain, Google commands 60 per
cent of all online inquiries, while just over 10 per cent goes through the
Microsoft search engine.

    Microsoft has been remarkably successful at clawing back its position after
falling behind rivals in other aspects of emerging technology, such as web
browsers and graphical operating systems. It is crucial that it also does so
with its search engine - which the company believes will allow it to "control
its own destiny" - but it faces strong competition not just from Google, but
Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves.

    MSN Search was launched simultaneously in 24 countries and 10 languages,
backed by a major advertising campaign. Its secret weapon is the ability to
access Microsoft's Encarta encyclopaedia, with its 1.4 million entries. This
allows users to ask direct questions such as, what is the world's largest lake?

    Mr Gates, who is said to be worth £26.7bn, was meeting European
commissioners in Brussels yesterday in a bid to resolve an anti-trust ruling
against him which resulted in a EUR500m (£350m) fine last year.

    The EU competition commissioner, Mario Monti, ruled that Microsoft was
abusing the monopoly position it enjoyed with its Windows operating system,
found in 90 per cent of personal computers worldwide.

    It was ordered to strip down the Microsoft products it offered as standard
with Windows, removing Media Player from the bundle. Microsoft is in talks with
officials on how such a stripped down Windows should be sold to the public.

    The new Microsoft search engine has been under trial in recent months. The
company believes it can loosen the Google stranglehold by slimming down the
number of websites it offers for each inquiry and by fashioning it more closely
to meet each user's needs.

    Matt Whittingham, head of information services at MSN, said: "I think
consumers, maybe two years ago, were wowed by the fact that you could enter a
relatively obscure search term and you would get hundreds of thousands of
results. In fact, there is perhaps too much information out there and what
consumers want is results that are tailored to them. They want search engines to
be a bit smarter, to know where they are geographically and to alter searches
depending on the time of day and if they are at work or at home."

    Microsoft believes its search engine will also be more up to date,
refreshing its list of around five billion websites every two days compared with
every two weeks in other cases.

    Google, whose creators Sergei Brin and Larry Page became billionaires when
the company they founded was floated on the stock market last year, makes its
money through sponsored links - adverts which appear on screen when an inquiry
is made.

    THE TEST

    V What is the population of Peru? MSN Search had an instant answer:
28,863,494. Google provided 2,600,00 possible sites. Top of the list was an
outdated 26m.

    V What is the deepest ocean? MSN is instant: the Pacific Ocean, maximum
10,924m. Google's first offer misses the mark while its second reports the same
answer.

    V How rich is Bill Gates? MSN has nothing. Google shows a real-time Bill
Gates personal wealth clock. It calculates how much each US citizen has
contributed to it ($ 203.03).

    Conclusion: 2-1 to MSN, but don't ask about Bill Gates.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              81 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: MICROSOFT LAUNCHES NEW SEARCH ENGINE TO CHALLENGE GOOGLE

BYLINE: JONATHAN BROWN

HIGHLIGHT:
Bill Gates hopes the new search engine will dent the supremacy of the market
leader, Google AP

BODY:


    TO GOOGLE has passed into modern usage as a verb that means to look
something up on the internet. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, was hoping
yesterday that we will soon be talking about MSN Searching instead.

    While its name might not trip off the tongue, Mr Gates launched his new
search engine with a huge fanfare, replacing the existing Yahoo! service which
comes as standard with Microsoft's msn.co.uk and unveiling a redesigned home
page.

    But it has a lot of catching up to do. In Britain, Google commands 60 per
cent of all online inquiries, while just over 10 per cent goes through the
Microsoft search engine.

    Microsoft has been remarkably successful at clawing back its position after
falling behind rivals in other aspects of emerging technology, such as web
browsers. It is crucial that it also does so with its search engine - which the
company believes will allow it to "control its own destiny" - but it faces
strong competition not just from Google, but Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves.

    MSN Search was launched simultaneously in 24 countries and 10 languages. Its
weapon is the ability to access Microsoft's Encarta encyclopaedia, with its 1.4
million entries. This allows users to ask direct questions such as, what is the
world's largest lake?

    The new Microsoft search engine has been under trial in recent months. The
company believes it can loosen the Google stranglehold by slimming down the
number of websites it offers for each inquiry and by fashioning it more closely
to meet each user's needs.

    Matt Whittingham, head of information services at MSN, said: "I think
consumers, maybe two years ago, were wowed by the fact that you could enter a
relatively obscure search term and you would get hundreds of thousands of
results. In fact, there is perhaps too much information out there and what
consumers want is results that are tailored to them. They want search engines to
be a bit smarter, to know where they are geographically."

    Microsoft believes its search engine will also be more up to date,
refreshing its list of about five billion websites every two days compared with
every two weeks in other cases.

    Google, whose creators Sergei Brin and Larry Page became billionaires when
the company they founded was floated on the stock market last year, makes its
money through sponsored links - ads which appear on screen when an inquiry is
made.

    The company, based in Mountain View, said yesterday that it earned $ 204.1m
in the final three months of 2004, compared with net income of $ 27.3m for the
same period in 2003. Revenue during the last three months of 2004 was $ 1.03bn,
more than double the $ 512.2m for the same period during the previous year.
Despite its revenue jump, Google's total was only about a tenth of Microsoft's,
which reported a figure of $ 10.8bn for the same period.

    Mr Gates, said to be worth £26.7bn, was meeting European commissioners in
Brussels yesterday to try to resolve an anti-trust ruling against him which
resulted in a EUR500m (£350m) fine last year. The EU competition commissioner,
Mario Monti, ruled that Microsoft was abusing the monopoly position it enjoyed
with its Windows operating system, found in 90 per cent of personal computers
worldwide. It was ordered to strip down the Microsoft products it offered as
standard with Windows, removing Media Player. Microsoft is in talks on how this
Windows should be sold to the public.

    TEST DRIVE

    V What is the population of Peru? MSN Search had an instant answer:
28,863,494. Google provided 2,600,00 possible sites. Top of the list was an
outdated 26m.

    V What is the deepest ocean? MSN is instant: the Pacific Ocean, maximum
10,924m. Google's first offer misses the mark while its second reports the same
answer.

    V How rich is Bill Gates? MSN has nothing. Google shows a real-time Bill
Gates personal wealth clock. It calculates how much each US citizen has
contributed to it ($ 203.03).

    V Who was the world's first female prime minister?

    Google was right first time, identifying Sirimavo Bandaranaike - elected in
Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) in 1960 - in 0.06 seconds. It was also top on MSN which
took 1.47 seconds to find it.

    VHow long is a furlong? The answer - 220 yards - was 11th in MSN ranking and
first on Google.

    VWho are Larry Page and Sergei Brin?

    Both sites turned immediately to Google's own corporate information page to
identify its founders.

    Conclusion: 3-2 to Google; don't ask MSN about Gates.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              82 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: THE WEDNESDAY BOOK: PORTRAIT OF PAINTER WHO WAS NOT THE RIPPER;
 WALTER SICKERT: A LIFE MATTHEW STURGIS HARPERCOLLINS, POUNDS

BYLINE: RICHARD CANNING

BODY:


    FIRST, THE bad news: Walter Sickert was not Jack the Ripper. If his life was
wayward, posthumous opinion of the artist has been no more predictable. The
typically perverse source of the painter-as-homicidal maniac canard, for
example, turns out to be one of his descendants.

    The thesis was widely aired by American crime novelist Patricia Cornwell in
Portrait of a Killer. It is crackers. Sickert's name was never associated with
the crimes during his lifetime. This was unsurprising, as he was resident in
France throughout the period of the Ripper's activities. One imagines Sickert
regretting missing the fuss and infamy that an allegation might have caused,
though his womanising, bad temper and proneness to debt produced enough of both.

    Now the good news - and plenty of it on every page of this magisterial, taut
and fresh book. Sturgis cut his biographical teeth on the briefest of artistic
lives: Aubrey Beardsley, who died aged 25. He has now, arguably, discovered his
ideal subject. It is a measure of how impressive his rendition of Sickert's
life, career and influence is that it feels more apt to argue that the artist
has been fortunate in his biographer.

    However uncertain Sickert's reputation may be today, it is important to
remember that there was no real heyday. His pictures have never attracted a
fraction of the sums now lavished on anything Pre-Raphaelite. Still, Sickert's
introduction of Impress- ionist themes and approaches to the narrow world of the
London art scene was of seismic importance. It would sweep away the aestheticist
tendencies of Sickert's first mentor, Whistler, just as decisively as Whistler's
influence on Sickert was displaced by that of Degas.

    Moreover, the legacy of Sickert's brutal Camden Town Group realism may be
seen in a trajectory of many of the most important postwar British painters:
Bacon, Freud, Auerbach, Hodgkin. When we are presented with a selection of
Sickert's best works he strikes us as fundamentally contemporary. The same
cannot be said for any of the Bloomsbury artists.

    Sickert turns out exactly what Sturgis claims: "a great man and a great
artist". Error and conceit, of course, are just as capable of great size as
virtue or truth. There is a good deal less than palatable about the man, and
Sturgis spares us nothing. What he achieves is strikingly comparable to the grim
truthfulness of his own subject's most effective paintings.

    Reading these 760 pages, you approach the art with greater insight, and the
man with more interest. As period context is a special strength, to stroll
around London in the wake of Sturgis's research offers many new and diverting
delights.

    The reviewer is writing a life of Ronald Firbank

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              83 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: BRITAIN'S LAND IS STILL OWNED BY AN ARISTOCRATIC ELITE - BUT IT DOESN
'T HAVE TO BE THIS WAY

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

BODY:


    Who owns Britain? Most of us would instinctively reply: we do. The British
people own the British Isles. This is a democracy, isn't it? But the facts tell
a different story. When you look at a map of the British Isles, you are looking
not at your home but at a land mass overwhelmingly owned by a tiny aristocratic
elite. Extraordinary though it might seem, in the 21st century, 0.6 per cent of
the British people own 69 per cent of the land on which we live - and they are
mostly the same families who owned it in the 19th century.

    When it comes to land ownership, Britain today is a more unequal country
than Brazil - where there are regular land riots. We are beaten in the European
league tables only by Spain, a country which largely retains the land patterns
imposed by General Franco's fascist regime. It's time we realised: this land is
not your land, from Land's End to the Scottish Highlands. It is theirs.

    This makes a mockery of the principles our society is supposed to be built
on. Very few people defended the idea of hereditary peers - so why should most
of the country's land be owned according to hereditary principles? For a system
of private property to thrive - and I believe it must, because it is the best
way to generate wealth - it has to be legitimate. There must be a relationship
between work and reward: if you work hard, you should be rewarded. But most of
these landowners have put in no work, and they are given a vast reward: the land
on which we live. And - even where wealth has been earned, as in a few cases -
nobody has earned this obscene amount of space on a crowded island. There has to
be some sense of proportion, or the idea of human equality becomes a bad joke.

    But far from redistributing land, successive British governments have
reinforced this inequality by subsidising the richest landowners in the country.
For example, a recent New Statesman investigation found that the
multi-billionaire Duke of Westminster - who has done nothing to earn his wealth
- is entitled to £9.2m in subsidies each year from you, the taxpayer. Kevin
Cahill, the author of an award-winning book on land ownership in Britain,
explains: "Money is being taken out of your pocket to enhance the assets of the
rich, who, in their role as landowners, pay no tax. This is a massive scandal."
Yesterday, Tony Blair was talking about weaning poor people in Britain off
disability benefit. How about taking the land-owning aristocracy off welfare
before we start turning on poor people desperate for their extra £50 a week?

    Only one part of Britain has woken up to this national scandal so far -
Scotland. This week, the Highland community of Lochinver is voting on whether
they want to buy 40,000 acres of land that currently belongs to the Vestey
family, a bunch of staggeringly rich corned beef tycoons. This right was granted
to the local community by the Scottish Parliament when it introduced a Land
Reform Act in 2003. The legislation abolished the feudal system where tenants
were referred to as "vassals" and landowners as "superiors". And in addition to
getting rid of the formal trappings of feudalism, the Act made it possible to
erode the grip of these predominantly feudal families on Scottish land.

    The new laws are simple. They ensure that whenever a large slice of rural
land is placed on the market, the local community has the democratic right to
claim it for themselves. If more than 50 per cent of locals vote to take the
land, and if they can raise 50 per cent of the price themselves with business
plans, the Highland Council (or the relevant local authority) will provide the
remaining funds. If the community votes to buy over the next few days, the
Vesteys will be legally forbidden to flog the land to the highest bidder. In
other words, a transfer of the land from elite to elite will not be allowed.

    In this instance, the Vesteys want to sell, but even if they didn't there is
some provision in the legislation for communities to force a "hostile buy-out"
if they can demonstrate it is in the public interest. Crofters, for example, can
vote to buy and run the land they live and work on even if the landlord refuses
to sell.

    This package of land redistribution is even more desperately needed in
Scotland than in the rest of Britain: just 103 people own 30 per cent of the
entire country. The new laws will very slowly erode this vast inequality over
the next century, as more and more communities claim the land for themselves to
be run as community trusts or shared property.

    Of course, there has been howling from the Scottish Tories about this
"Mugabe-style land grab" and "attack on property rights". True, land
redistribution has a bad reputation and a bad history. In the name of stripping
land away from a tiny landed elite and giving it to the people, 30 million
people died in China. Today, thousands are dying in its name in Zimbabwe, and
the issue is threatening to destabilise many parts of South America and even
Africa's most successful democracy, South Africa.

    But far from being an argument against the Scottish laws, we should be glad
that a peaceful mechanism of redistribution is being pioneered here. Land
redistribution is an urgent cause across the world, particularly for the poor -
and in Scotland, they are showing how it can be done in a democratic way,
without violence. The problem with Robert Mugabe's policy is not - as the right
usually implies - with the very idea of redistributing land. When Zimbabwe was
established in 1979, just 1 per cent of the population (the white men) owned 60
per cent of the land, including all the most fertile and profitable acres. Most
of it had been violently seized just a generation or two before. Does anybody
think that was a just or sustainable situation?

    But the problems with Mugabe's model of psycho-redistribution are clear. He
is not giving land to ordinary Zimbabweans; he is claiming much of it for
himself (under the name of "nationalisation") and giving the rest to a fetid
elite of Zanu-PF cronies. His policy has been enforced by armed thugs who have
butchered their way across the Zimbabwean countryside.

    But now, peasants and poor people across the world need not look to Mugabe
or Mao or other tyrants for a way to take land back from the rich. Instead, they
can look to this new kilt-wearing redistribution through the ballot box.

    It could hardly come at a better time. In most countries in the world, land
is not being democratised and spread across the population. In fact, the World
Bank and International Monetary Fund have been imposing policies on poor
countries that actually increase the concentration of land ownership and make
more people into landless peasants. In Colombia, for example, the 0.4 per cent
who make up the Colombian elite now owns 61 per cent of the country - an
increase of 30 per cent in the past decade. On the IMF's instructions, South
Africa still has apartheid-level inequality in land ownership, with just 4 per
cent of farmland being redistributed from white to black.

    Has the Scottish model ever been needed more? It is time to take the high
road to a more equal Britain - and a more equal world.

    J.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              84 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: OBITUARY: ERIC GRIFFITHS;
 QUARRY MAN WHO MADE WAY FOR GEORGE HARRISON

BYLINE: SPENCER LEIGH

HIGHLIGHT:
Griffiths, left, and John Lennon performing with the Quarry Men in 1957, the day
Lennon met Paul McCartney Geoff Rhind / Scorpion

BODY:


    THE EVOLUTION of the Beatles line-up into John, Paul, George and Ringo was
by no means clear-cut. What began as John Lennon's 1957 skiffle group, the
Quarry Men, went through 16 changes in personnel and several names to arrive at
the famed quartet in August 1962. Pete Best was the unluckiest member, being
replaced at the brink of fame; Stuart Sutcliffe was the unlikeliest member, as
his talent lay in art; but the Quarry Men themselves would not have come into
being without Eric Griffiths's staunch support.

    He remained in its ranks for 15 months, finally leaving the group in 1958,
shortly after George Harrison's arrival, and nearly five years before the
Beatles' first big success.

    Griffiths was born in Denbigh in 1940 and his father, a fighter pilot, was
killed in action a few months later. After the Second World War, his mother
moved to the Liverpool suburb of Bootle with Eric and his sister Joan. When Eric
was 10, the family had a further move to Woolton and, on his first day at Quarry
Bank High School, Eric met two rebellious pupils, John Lennon and Pete Shotton.
They grew up with an interest in girls, clothes and cigarettes, and, come 1956,
the skiffle music of Lonnie Donegan.

    "We both went to a guitar teacher in Hunts Cross," Griffiths recalled,

    but the idea of trying to play the guitar properly and not being able to get
a tune out of it for some time was pretty boring. John's mother retuned our
guitar strings and

    showed us her banjo chords and we played in that manner until Paul McCartney
joined. We were more interested in playing than learning.

    With another Quarry Bank schoolboy, Rod Davis, on banjo and an outsider,
Colin Hanton, on drums, they became the Quarry Men and various members came and
went on the tea-chest bass until the role was filled by Len Garry. Their early
performances included an audition on the Carroll Levis Discoveries show at the
Liverpool Empire, although neither Levis nor the audience recognised their
talent that night.

    On 6 July 1957, the Quarry Men played St Peter's Church fete in Woolton.
This involved three appearances in one day: performing on the back of a lorry in
the procession around the suburb, playing in a tent in a large field and
providing the evening entertainment in the church hall. It was a fair assignment
for an untried act but they did satisfactorily, being appreciated by their
schoolfriends. The day proved significant, too, as the occasion when Lennon
first met Paul McCartney.

    By now the group's repertoire was expanding. According to Griffiths,

    John was the leader and so what he sang dictated the repertoire, but he knew
that we could only play what we could manage on our instruments. The skiffle
songs were the easiest to play but, by the time of the fete, we were playing
Elvis Presley's hits, which were a little bit more difficult.

    Skiffle was tolerated by jazz fans at the Cavern club, but, when the Quarry
Men appeared in August 1958, the club's manager, Alan Sytner, sent a note to the
stage, "Cut out the bloody rock'n'roll."

    When the 15-year-old guitarist George Harrison joined the group in 1958,
Griffiths was asked to switch to bass, but the expense would have been too much
for his mother. Griffiths left the Quarry Men to become an officer cadet in the
Merchant Navy. In 1963, serving in the Persian Gulf, he heard on the radio the
Beatles' "Please Please Me" - their first big hit.

    Griffiths found his niche when he joined the prison service in 1967. He
reported on the productivity of prisoners and became the head of Planning and
Promotion for the prison service in Scotland. But he felt that his lack of
formal qualifications prevented him from rising higher in the Civil Service, and
in 1985 he bought a launderette and developed a chain of dry cleaners around
Edinburgh. In 1993 he took redundancy from the Civil Service and built up his
chain of CareClean shops.

    In 1997, Griffiths's life changed again when he attended a party for the
40th anniversary of the Cavern. He was reunited with Shotton, Garry, Hanton and
Davis and, after an impromptu set, they reformed as the Quarry Men for the next
fete at St Peter's Church. Their success led to appearances at Beatle
conventions and they toured the UK, North and South America and Japan. In 1997
they recorded their first album, Get Back - Together (1997), which was followed
last year by Songs We Remember. The Beatles' official biographer, Hunter Davies,
wrote a biography of the band, The Quarrymen (2001).

    Their performances were shambolic, but that was part of their charm. If they
had practised and become more proficient, it would not have been like the Quarry
Men circa 1957 and so they would have missed the point. Griffiths had a crumpled
face but he still had the mop of thick brown hair that he had had back then. He
was too taciturn to be much of a stage performer but he was always courteous
with fans.

    When I saw the Quarry Men give a two-hour concert in the Paul McCartney
Auditorium at the Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts in 2000, I asked
Griffiths if they sounded like they did in 1957. "Yes, we were pretty awful back
then, much the same as tonight," he replied.

    Eric Ronald Griffiths, guitarist and singer: born Denbigh 31 October 1940;
married (three sons); died Edinburgh 29 January 2005.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              85 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: OBITUARY: LUCIEN CARR;
 LAST ORIGINAL MEMBER OF THE BEATS

BYLINE: PATRICIA CREMINS

HIGHLIGHT:
 Shakespeare reborn almost': Carr, centre, with William Burroughs, left, and
Allen Ginsberg in 1953 Allen Ginsberg / Corbis

BODY:


    LUCIEN CARR was the last survivor of the original members of the Beat
generation. Although Carr was not a writer himself, he had a strong influence on
the novelist Jack Kerouac, and on the poet Allen Ginsberg when they were
students together at Columbia University in New York. During a seminal and
tumultuous year in the mid-1940s Carr seemed to embody the elements that the
Beats took on as their abiding literary aesthetic: a fascination with criminal
low-life, and a kind of visionary poetic Romanticism.

    Ginsberg tells of meeting Carr in 1943 after hearing the music of Brahms
pouring from his college dormitory. He was "the most angelic kid I ever saw".
Kerouac, who became friends with both men around the same time, described Carr,
with characteristic exuberance, as a man "with complete intelligence, language
pouring out of him, Shakespeare reborn almost, golden hair with a halo around it
". It was Carr who introduced Kerouac to the mystical literary theories of
William Butler Yeats, from whom Kerouac borrowed the idea of "automatic writing"
that he would use in his 1957 novel On the Road.

    Carr grew up in St Louis, where he was raised by his wealthy mother in an
atmosphere of upper-class privilege. He never knew his father, who walked out on
the family when Lucien was two. Through Carr William Burroughs, also from a
well-to-do St Louis family, met the other Beat writers.

    A persistent legacy of the Beats is the romantic idea of the artist as
social outlaw. Carr passed on to his writer friends his infatuation with
Rimbaud, who exemplified this idea. A few months into his friendship with Carr,
Ginsberg wrote in his journal:

    Know these words and you speak the Carr language: fruit, phallus, clitoris,
cacoethes, feces, foetus, womb, Rimbaud.

    The gem in this lexicon, as the cultural historian James Campbell points
out, is " cacoethes', an uncontrollable urge, especially for something harmful".

    In August 1944, Carr became something of a cause celebre when he murdered
David Kammerer, an older admirer who had been sexually obsessed with Carr since
he was 12 years old. Kammerer followed Carr to New York where Carr stabbed him
to death with a boy-scout knife in Riverside Park. He then rolled the body into
the Hudson River.

    Carr confessed the crime to Burroughs and to Kerouac, who helped him to
dispose of the knife. As a result, both writers were arrested as accessories to
murder. Carr claimed self-defence. He was convicted of manslaughter and served
two years in prison.

    After his release, Carr took pains to distance himself from the Beat scene.
To the dismay of his old friends, he became a conventional newspaperman at
United Press International. Carr was included in the dedication of the first
edition of Ginsberg's famous poem Howl, but insisted that his name be removed
from subsequent printings. He is often cited as having given Kerouac the scroll
on which Kerouac typed the first draft of On the Road - apparently the novel was
written on teletype paper taken from a shelf at the UPI offices.

    As the legend of the Beats grew, Carr asked his friends to refrain from
mentioning him as part of the group. However, characters based on Carr appeared
in Kerouac's fiction. In his novel Vanity of Duluoz (1968), Kerouac recounts
some of Carr's youthful antics, such as the time Carr rolled Kerouac down
Broadway in a beer keg.

    His private relationships with the three central Beat writers, however,
remained close to the end of their lives. He was a confidant, and an early
reader of their work.

    Ginsberg once wrote down a song that Lucien Carr liked to sing: "Violate me
/ in violent times / the vilest way that you know. / Ruin me / ravage me / on me
no mercy bestow."

    Lucien Carr, journalist: born St Louis, Missouri 1 March 1925; staff, United
Press International 1946-93; twice married (three sons); died Washington, DC 28
January 2005.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              86 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: TENNIS: FALSE DAWN AS HINGIS SERVES UP TANTALISING GLIMPSE OF A LOST
TALENT

BYLINE: TENNIS BY JOHN ROBERTS

HIGHLIGHT:
Martina Hingis, the former world No 1, looks for inspiration during her 1-6,
6-2, 6-2 defeat by Marlene Weingartner in Thailand yesterday Reuters

BODY:


    THE TENTATIVE steps taken by Martina Hingis at the Volvo Women's Open in
Pattaya yesterday may, or may not, prove to be the first in several comebacks by
the Swiss former prodigy. But the signs of a revival were not encouraging, and
nor were her words.

    "At this point I have no plans to play any more tournaments," Hingis said
after losing to Marlene Weingartner, of Germany, in her first competitive match
since retiring two years ago because of ankle problems.

    Deprived children in Thailand will benefit from the 24-year-old Hingis'
participation in the event, which she entered as a charitable gesture, leaving
the media to speculate that it represented a new beginning for the youngest No 1
in history.

    Considering the length of Hingis' absence from the WTA Tour, a first round
defeat, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2, was reasonable, even though the 25-year-old Weingartner,
ranked 73rd, is not a player to send Sharapova and the Williams sisters running
for cover. As was the case when Hingis began to be over- powered by her peers,
the spirit was willing but the serve was weak.

    "I've never had plans further than this step," Hingis said. "Maybe I'll play
some exhibition tournaments. That's my plan at the moment." She will continue to
keep in touch by commentating and conducting coaching clinics and will try to
satisfy her competitive instincts by riding in minor showjumping events.

    It is startling to realise that Hingis is only one year older than her
compatriot Roger Federer, the greatest talent in men's tennis, and to recall her
triumph at Wimbledon in 1997 when, at the age of 16, she became the youngest
singles champion since the 15-year-old Lottie Dod, who only had to win three
games to take the title in 1887. Hingis went on to win five Grand Slam singles,
failing only at the French Open, where she lost in the final twice. She was
world No 1 for a total of 209 weeks and won 40 singles titles and 36 in doubles.

    In 2001, her lawyers began litigation against the Italian sportswear company
Sergio Tacchini, claiming their shoes had damaged her feet. She had operations
on her ankles, in 2001 and May 2002, which led to her retirement. Before
yesterday, her last match on the WTA Tour was a 6- 3, 6-1, defeat to Elena
Dementieva, of Russia, in Filderstadt in October 2002.

    Although Hingis was able to capitalise on Weingartner's errors in the
opening set yesterday, there was only one moment in the match when she caused
damage. Leading 2-1 in the second set, Hingis went up 40-0 on Weingartner's
serve by hitting a smash so hard that it removed several letters of her opponent
's name on the scoreboard. Hingis then lost nine of the next 10 points to go
behind 3-2, and never recovered.

    Having played her first professional tournament at 14, Hingis won a total of
£10m in official career prize money and earned millions more from endorsements.
As she said last year: "I can start my life off doing the things I want to do,
and also being able to pay for them, I'm not like a student having to struggle
for the rent."

    l Monica Seles, absent from the WTA Tour since May 2003 with a foot injury,
lost 6-4, 6-4, to Martina Navratilova in an exhibition match in Wellington, New
Zealand, yesterday.

    TOP TO BOTTOM HINGIS'S CAREER

    1994: Beats Patty Fendick 6-4, 6-3 on her debut, aged 14 years four days.

    1997: Youngest woman to win a Grand Slam with 6-2, 6-2 victory over Mary
Pierce at the Australian Open (pictured). Wins Wimbledon and US Open.

    1998: Wins Australian Open. But a sprained left ankle ends 80-week run as
the world No 1.

    1999: Wins Australian Open.

    2001: Surgery on right ankle.

    2002: Surgery on left ankle. Plays "last" match of her career in
Filderstadt, losing 6-3, 6-1 to Elena Dementieva in second round.

    2003: Retires citing ongoing pain from ankle injuries.

    Yesterday: Plays in Thailand Open, losing 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 to Marlene
Weingartner.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              87 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Newspaper Publishing PLC
                            The Independent (London)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL: BIRMINGHAM DEBUT FOR PANDIANI

BYLINE: NICK HARRIS

BODY:


    WALTER PANDIANI is likely to make his debut for Birmingham City against
Southampton tonight after completing his last-minute loan signing from Deportivo
La Coruna just before the transfer window closed at midnight on Monday.

    "The transfer came very late, and we had to get people out of bed," the
Birmingham manager, Steve Bruce, said yesterday of his new 28-year-old Uruguayan
striker. "We didn't think it was going to be possible at one stage. I heard that
he was on the verge of a move to Fiorentina, but somehow that went by the
wayside. We've got somebody who will intrigue the whole of football. This is a
big name and a big player in Spain. He's a very, very good striker."

    Bruce has also signed Mehdi Nafti, a 26-year-old Tunisian international, on
loan from Racing Santander. Arsenal's Jermaine Pennant could follow, depending
on the outcome of the winger's court case for drink-driving and driving while
disqualified.

    In the Championship, West Ham United have signed a 19-year-old goalkeeper,
Dusan Kuciak, on loan until the end of the season from Slovakia's MSK Zilina.

    The Celtic defender Bobo Balde, who had been tipped to move to England
during the transfer window, signed a four-and-a-half year contract extension
yesterday.

    "My heart has been with Celtic for some time and that was a big factor in my
decision," Balde said. "I want to help Celtic try to retain the championship and
again experience big European matches as we have done in the recent past."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              88 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
                  Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 Irish Independent
                               Irish Independent

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: LONG HAIR FOR CHOP IN NORTH KOREA

BODY:



   NORTH Korea's communist government is waging war against men with long hair,
calling them unhygienic anti-socialist fools, and even leader Kim Jong Il has
trimmed his famous bouffant locks.

   The hair campaign comes as North Korea's dictatorship struggles to tighten
its control over information, monitor its population and dictate cultural
tastes.

   It is directing men to wear their hair "socialist style", deriding shabbily
coifed men as "blind followers of bourgeois lifestyle".

   North Korea's state-run TV even identifies violators by name and address,
exposing them to jeers from other citizens.

   "We cannot help questioning the cultural taste of this comrade, who is
incapable of feeling ashamed of his hair style," the station said, showing a Mr
Ko Gwang Hyun, whose unkempt hair covered his ears. "Can we expect a man with
this dishevelled mind-set to perform his duty well?" the announcer asked.

   The government is growing wary of outside influence seeping in.

   Foreign broadcasts penetrate the country through smuggled transistor radios.
As North Korea's economic woes persist, more North Koreans are travelling to
China to seek food - and are exposed to the rapidly spreading capitalist culture
there. CDs containing South Korean songs and TV dramas - popular in most of Asia
- are reportedly smuggled into the North.

   The hair campaign is dubbed "Let's trim our hair according to socialist
lifestyle" and requires that hair be kept no longer than two inches. But the
state trend-setters allowed an exception: old men can grow hair up to seven 2.8
inches to hide balding. The campaign claims that long hair hampers brain
activity by taking oxygen away from nerves in the head. It doesn't explain why
women are still allowed to grow long hair.

JOURNAL-CODE: FII

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              89 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
                  Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 Irish Independent
                               Irish Independent

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: KIND OF JUSTICE ON NIGHT OF UGLY TENSION

BODY:



   THE sight of Roy Keane and Patrick Vieira squaring up in the tunnel was not
the happiest augury for a night of sweet reason - or football.

   Then it turned ugly. Ugly in a way that a flurry of punches from the captains
could scarcely have deepened. Indeed, that might just have burst a boil of
considerable malignancy.

   Stored up here were months of seething resentments, and if some cockeyed
optimist had declared a hope that somehow the game which both these teams are
superbly equipped to illuminate - rather than besmirch with the feudal spirit of
a gang of rancid hillbillies - could flourish here last night he would have died
by derision long before Wayne Rooney was booked.

   This flashpoint came shortly after Vieira had dived, presumably with a view
to having the prodigy sent off.

   By half-time Rooney was perilously close to being sent off after some moments
of lost control which grimly brought to mind the first great crisis of his
career in Madrid, when England coach Sven Goran Eriksson decided to beat the
referee to an inevitable order of dismissal.

   But if Rooney in the worst of his spirits, a one-teenager riot waiting to
happen, he did have something of an excuse. He had his youth, his lack of
experience of the big world - one that can be cynical and bitter enough to sing
as the Highbury crowd did, about a boy's sexual adventures as paraded in the
tabloids. Rooney didn't have the best example, to name just one, in his more
senior England team-mate Ashley Cole, who should have been sent off in the first
minutes for a terrible dive at the feet of Roy Keane.

   That was the theme, the seething undercurrent of this match which was
supposed to about the fate of the silver medal in the race behind Chelsea, and
when you remembered that the managers Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger had to
be ordered into silence by the Football Association and their

   chairmen it was that much less of a surprise that so much of the action was
about deceit and abandonment of football's best values.

   Certainly referee Graham Poll could hardly be faulted if he spent most of the
90 minutes in a fog of doubt - one that enveloped him most seriously when Mikael
Silvestre was sent off, for the first time in his career, after Dennis Bergkamp
had fallen to the turf and Freddie Ljungberg had said something to the
Frenchman. It was any expression of concern that he might have just have been
caught up in another moment of conspiracy.

   And amid of all this were reminders that these are two football teams of
superb skill.

   Goals, and not ordinary goals, flowed amid the mayhem of the football

   spirit. Vieira scored too easily from a corner after United's defence once
again had shown far too much passivity in defending a set-piece.

   Then we saw United flowing again with that conviction that had been growing
ever since they broke Arsenal's run of 49 unbeaten games in that first rancorous
collision at Old Trafford last October. Giggs, with the help of a deflection,
finished off a move of zip and poise to equalise.

   Quickly enough Arsenal were back on top, when Bergkamp showed what he could
achieve when he put his mind - and more crucially, perhaps - his heart on the
line.

   It was Bergkamp the thoroughbred after being played through beautifully, who
was briefly enough erupting from one of those pallid performances which so often
mark his efforts in the trenches against United.

   But there was something about United this night which occasionally rose above
the squalor of so much of a game relentlessly geared to the arts of sharp
practice. Rooney, who passed from the edge of disaster, reminded us of his
superb talent when he sent the ball bouncing off Arsenal's crossbar.

   And Ronaldo, the eternal trickster, scored two goals in that effusion of
talent which is always lurking just below the surface of his exhibitionist
style.

   Ronaldo suggested that here was a cutting edge of some magnitude as United
finally realised that perhaps the damage they inflicted at Old Trafford went so
much deeper than skin level.

   Plaintively, the reigning champions Arsenal might argue now that they were
denied a legitimate penalty when Robert Pires was brought down by Silvestre.
They were right in their belief but wrong to utter a breath of protest. This
was, after all a night when cheating went on a flood tide.

   Justice wasn't a reasonable demand. It was one that 10-man United finally
crushed, deservedly so in the end, when John O'Shea chipped exquisitely over
Manuel Almuni's head. A kind of justice had arrived on the night.

JOURNAL-CODE: FII

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              90 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
                  Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 Irish Independent
                               Irish Independent

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: SIN BIN WILL BE BACK EVENTUALLY DESPITE BOTCHED TRIAL

BODY:



   PICTURE the scene. It's mid-afternoon in the Rehabilitation Centre for the
Bewildered and a new arrival is being introduced to a therapy session.

   The responsibility falls to the most chronically confused member of the
group, so the Electronic Voting Machine steps forwards.

   Once all hi-tech and futuristic, it hasn't been doing too well since
discovering that the Minister For Good Judgement, Martin Cullen, apparently the
only person who loved it in the first place, succumbed to pressure (or was it a
word from Bertie?) and ordered that it be decommissioned without ever actually
having seen national service.

   After months in a darkened storehouse, it has found the sessions with other
members of the bewildered community quite therapeutic, even if it does accept
that the prospects of being pawed by the Irish electorate in the next decade are
quite remote.

   Still, it knows how it ended up here. Conceived after a liaison between haste
and gimmickry, born to a booming fanfare under the watchful eye of very
expensive spin-doctors, it became a celebrity baby who was touted around the
show-off circuit.

   Once out in the real world, it found there was more to life than ministerial
conceit and pseudo glamour. And so, it now finds itself introducing a new member
to the seriously bewildered group.

   "Friends, we have a newcomer with us today and I want you all to be very
supportive. His tale of woe is very sad. Would you like to give us your name?"

   A short pause, after which an object shuffles into the centre of the room,
removes a towel from over its head and declares meekly: "My name is GAA Sin Bin
and I'm a complete wreck. Talk about not getting a decent chance in life. I
could have been the way forward to a bright new disciplinary world, one where
players who committed two yellow card offences were ushered in my direction for
ten minutes. Simple, neat, effective and progressive."

   And what happened?

   "For reasons best known to themselves, the crowd who were responsible for
proposing the experiments came up with the zero tolerance notion that a player
who committed one yellow card offence should avail of my services."

   Wasn't that a good idea?

   "Are you mad? Aren't Gaelic games supposed to be contact sports? One slight
error in tackling and off you go for ten minutes. Crazy. I found myself busier
than the Red Cow roundabout. I simply couldn't cope with the heavy traffic. And
then there was the stress. It was pure bedlam, with managers yelling in
frustration, inmates ready to kick me for my perceived lack of compassion and
the poor old fourth official desperately trying to control the on-off flow."

   Tell me your innermost thoughts during those traumatic days?

   "Anger, frustration, surprise, confusion. I wondered why there had been so
little consultation before I was given such draconian powers. I never sought
them, you see. I simply wanted to be used for ten minutes for players who had
picked up two yellow cards."

   But wouldn't that be watering down the existing rule? Couldn't have that, now
could we?

   "Well, actually we could if, for example, everybody played their football
like Kerry and Galway, who between them have managed to win five of the last
eight All-Ireland finals.

   "Did you know that in the last four major clashes between the counties (two
All-Ireland finals, one quarter-final and a National League final), the average
number of frees per match was a modest 34? We could all live with that.

   "Anyway, my point was that ten minutes with me would be enough for players
who committed two yellow card offences, provided every such offender was
punished. We all know that some referees were unwilling to wave the second card
because it sidelined a player for the remainder of the game. Also, I wanted
persistent offenders to be punished.

   "Under the old system, a player could pick a yellow card every time he played
and never miss a game. If three yellows were followed by a one-match ban, it
would close off that anomaly."

   So, you feel bitter about the way you have been treated?

   "Wouldn't you? I was proposed by a committee which had very few meetings,
never seemed to have a full attendance, and didn't have time to take detailed
soundings. I was implemented mostly by inexperienced referees when, in fact, the
heavyweights should have been used. I was doomed from the start."

   So you weren't surprised when you were discarded?

   "No, but I was stunned by what replaced me. A player can now be sidelined
after one minute for a relatively small error. Six months hard training, but if
he slides awkwardly into the first tackle, it's a yellow card. Bye, bye. Doesn't
happen in any other major field sport."

   So what's your assessment now?

   "I had much more to offer if used properly, but now I'm redundant. We had 13
v 12 players for a time in two O'Byrne Cup games where there wasn't a single
nasty foul. My good name was ruined because of bad planning; a hasty decision
was taken to close me down and replace me with an even tougher measure; the
hurling community are up in arms because they believe (rightly) that they are
being punished for football's sins. Now that's some catalogue of chaos. And, we
all know where it's leading."

   Where's that?

   "There's about as much chance of the latest experiment being accepted by
Congress as there is of Martin Cullen becoming the next Taoiseach."

   And your own future?

   "A bit like electronic voting. I'll have my day, but not for some time. We
are both good ideas that were botched, bruised and belittled. But we'll be back
in due course, provided of course we're properly turned out."

   With that, Sin Bin threw the towel back on its head and headed for a spell in
darkness.

   e-mail: mbreheny@eircom.net

JOURNAL-CODE: FII

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              91 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
                  Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 Irish Independent
                               Irish Independent

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: ANABEL 'KILLER' SAYS HE WAS UNFAIRLY PUT IN SPOTLIGHT

BODY:



   THE man sentenced to four years for the manslaughter of student Brian Murphy
outside Dublin's Club Anabel was unfairly put "in the spotlight" for the
killing, the Court of Criminal Appeal heard yesterday.

   Dermot Laide (23), from Castleblaney, Co Monaghan, is appealing his
conviction and the severity of his sentence.

   The three-judge court heard from Laide's lawyers that the appeal was based on
three main grounds - the editing of the statements of the four men accused of
Murphy's manslaughter, the media coverage of the trial and the rulings of the
trial judge, Michael White.

   Senior counsel Michael O'Higgins, representing Laide, said the editing of
statements given by Laide, Sean Mackey, Desmond Ryan and Andrew Frame, had
prejudiced his client's right to a fair trial.

   He said that during the editing process, the tag "Mr A" was used to refer to
a man who had kicked Brian Murphy in the head while he lay on the ground outside
Club Anabel on August 31, 2000.

   During the trial, counsel for Ryan and Frame asked a garda witness to confirm
that their clients were not Mr A.

   Mr O'Higgins said this had purely identified for the jury, through a process
of elimination, that Laide was Mr A. "Far from protecting and giving him
screening, it put a spotlight on him," he said.

   He said the judge's warning to the jury about this evidence had been
unsatisfactory because the judge himself had earlier stated that a warning would
not be sufficient.

   Mr O'Higgins said Laide got involved after his friend Andrew Frame had got
involved in a confrontation with Brian Murphy. There was evidence that Laide had
punched Murphy twice in the head with blows of a very severe nature.

   However Mr O'Higgins said that was the sum total of the prosecution case
against his client.

   He said statements by one of the other accused, Sean Mackey, had implicated
Laide in the kicking of Murphy on the ground.

   "Here was Sean Mackey, a man so deep he's an actual kicker, he's going to the
jury and saying Dermot Laide was to the fore in that," he said.

   Mr O'Higgins said Mackey had been doing so to earn Brownie points from the
jury by appearing to nominate one of his friends, even though Laide was not in
his company on the night, just in the same school.

   He said Laide could not have challenged this evidence by Mackey in which he
was named as Mr A because Mackey had not taken the stand.

   "It was so grossly in excess of what any other witness testified that its
prejudice to my client was overwhelming," he said.

   Laide sat in the court dressed in a grey suit with a purple tie, beside
Desmond Ryan who is appealing his nine-month sentence for violent disorder in
connection with the death of Murphy.

   The pair were facing directly across the courtroom, where Brian Murphy's
parents Denis and Mary, sat.

   Laide was supported in court by his girlfriend and Fr Aidan Troy, a family
friend who achieved international fame during the Holy Cross school protest in
Northern Ireland.

   Mr Justice Brian McCracken, presiding, and the two other judges were shown
transcripts of original statements along with the amended versions which were
presented in court.

   A statement from Mackey claiming that Laide punched Murphy while he was
collapsing to the ground was amended, with the tag 'Mr A' being substituted for
Laide's name.

   The Mr A reference was also inserted in a section which alleged that Laide
had held Murphy with his left hand and punched him with his right.

   Mr O'Higgins said: "That demonstrated to the jury a much, much higher degree
of malice and, to use a crude word, thuggery, when a man was being held in the
left hand and punched with the right." He said it was obvious to the dogs in the
street that Laide was Mr A.

   "The judge formed a view that when he allowed everyone else to say, 'I'm not
Mr A' that did not identify Mr Laide."

   Mr O'Higgins pointed out that of 50 eye-witnesses to the confrontation in
which Murphy died, only Mackey provided the "evocative description" of Laide
holding Murphy with one hand and punching him with the other.

   "Mr Mackey may well have been directing blame towards Mr Laide," he said.

   He added that Laide's guilty verdict was unsafe and should be quashed.

   Mr O'Higgins is to conclude his appeal case on behalf of Laide tomorrow.

   Sean Mackey, the third man convicted last March in connection with the death
of Murphy had his appeal against the severity of his sentence turned down by the
Court of Criminal Appeal last November.

JOURNAL-CODE: FII

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              92 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
                  Global News Wire - Europe Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 Irish Independent
                               Irish Independent

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: BLAIR TO ISSUE STATEMENT ON JAILING OF CONLON

BODY:



   BRITISH Prime Minister Tony Blair is preparing a public statement on the
wrongful imprisonment of Guildford Four member Gerry Conlon and his father
Guiseppe, he confirmed last night.

   During a meeting with Taoiseach Bertie Ahern in Downing Street, Mr Blair
discussed the case of Gerry and Guiseppe Conlon.

   The family has received a private acknowledgement of the miscarriage of
justice which was highlighted in the Oscar nominated film 'In the Name of the
Father', starring Daniel Day-Lewis.

   They have been pressing for a public apology.

   When asked about the Conlons' case, the Prime Minister would only say: "I
will be saying something about it shortly."

   The Court of Appeal quashed the sentences of the Guildford Four, jailed
following a 1974 pub bombing, in October 1989.

   Dan McGinn

JOURNAL-CODE: FII

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              93 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 The Irish Times
                                The Irish Times

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Ireland; Other Stories; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Three die on the roads, bringing year's toll to 31

BODY:


   Three people have died in two road accidents, bringing the number of
fatalities on the State's roads this year to 31. James Fitzgerald reports.

   In Co Laois, a 22 year old woman believed to be from Limerick, and a 23 year
old man thought to be from Co Carlow, were killed instantly when the car in
which they were travelling collided with a bus at Aghafin, Mountrath, at 1.10
a.m. yesterday.

   The accident took place on the main Dublin-Limerick road. It is thought that
their car burst into flames shortly after the head-on collision.

   Traffic on the N7 was reduced to one lane for several hours during the night
as gardai and emergency services dealt with the scene.

   The bodies of the two victims were removed to Portlaoise General Hospital.

   The six occupants of the bus were not thought to be seriously injured,
although they were also taken to hospital in Portlaoise for observation.

   Meanwhile, gardai in Leighlinbridge are investigating a fatal accident which
occurred at Moanduff, Co Carlow, at 1.45 p.m. on Monday.

   A man in his 30s, believed to be Scottish, was killed when his motorcycle
struck a wall.

   Gardai say no other vehicle was involved in the accident, and the deceased
man's name has not been released pending the notification of his next of kin in
Scotland.

   The January total of 31 is one fewer than for the same period last year. In
2004 a total of 379 people died in road traffic accidents, which was 40 more
than in the previous 12 months.

   Overall, however, road deaths have been on a steady decline since they
reached an all-time high of 628 in 1978.

   In 2003 the number of deaths fell sharply on the previous year's figure, a
development credited in part to the introduction of penalty points for speeding
and other road offences. However, statistics for last year and the first month
of 2005 suggest that the initial preventive effects of penalty points are
wearing off.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              94 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 The Irish Times
                                The Irish Times

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: World; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Call for world court to try Darfur criminals

BYLINE: Conor O'Clery in New York

BODY:


   SUDAN: A sealed file containing the names of those regarded as responsible
for crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur has been given to the
United Nations Secretary-General with the strong recommendation that they should
be tried by the International Criminal Court.

   Mr Kofi Annan said yesterday however that while his own support for the ICC
was well known, this was a decision for the Security Council, not for him.

   "What is vital is that these people are indeed held accountable," he said.
"Such grave crimes cannot be committed with impunity. That would be a terrible
betrayal of the victims and of potential future victims in Darfur and elsewhere.
"

   The names were compiled by the International Commission of Inquiry on Darfur
with the strong recommendation that they be handed to a future prosecutor in the
ICC. The 177-page report of the UN commission was presented to the 15 members of
the UN Security Council on Monday evening and is expected to be discussed by the
council on Friday.

   The United States has opposed the ICC from its inception and may oppose the
use of the court to try Darfur suspects.

   UN sources say there is unlikely to be a speedy resolution on the report by
the five-member commission. The two problems it faces are American reluctance to
agree to the ICC involvement and the reluctance of council members such as
Russia and China to impose sanctions on Sudan.

   Members are expected to discuss the possibility of setting up a tribunal of
the kind which judged cases of genocide in Rwanda.

   Mr Annan repeated yesterday that sanctions should still be on the table and
urged the security council to give immediate and very serious attention to the
report's recommendation that "action must be taken urgently to end these
violations".

   The commission had established that the government of Sudan and the Janjaweed
arab militia "are responsible for crimes under international law" and also found
that "attacks on villages, killing of civilians, rape, pillaging and forced
displacement have continued even while it was conducting its inquiry".

   The report concluded that the government of Sudan "has not pursued a policy
of genocide", although "in some instances individuals, including government
officials, may commit acts with genocidal intent".

   The UN Secretary General also noted that the commission "found credible
evidence that rebel forces, too, are responsible for serious violations which
may amount to war crimes, including murder of civilians and pillage".

   The commission recommended that only a competent court could decide on a
case-by-case basis the finding of acting with genocidal intent, Mr Annan said.
It noted that "the crimes against humanity and war crimes that have been
committed in Darfur may be no less serious and heinous than genocide".

   The report, released yesterday, describes in detail a concerted campaign of
violence against Darfur's Fur, Masalit, Jebel, Aranga and Zaghawa tribes since
February 2003, resulting in the deaths of 70,000 people and the displacement of
1.8 million.

   Editorial comment: page 17

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              95 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 The Irish Times
                                The Irish Times

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Features; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Turning a child into a pawn

BODY:


   The controversial theory of 'Parental Alienation Syndrome' is making its way
into Irish courts, writes Carol Coulter

   Child custody disputes are arguably the most fraught disputes that come
before the courts. They arise in the context of broken relationships, when both
parties are suffering from disappointment, anger and bitterness towards the
other. Any children they have in common inevitably become embroiled in the
battle, often to their detriment.

   Judges are asked to adjudicate on who should be the primary carer, or whether
the parents should have joint custody, which, if the relationship is already
very hostile, can be difficult to implement. In doing so they can have the
assistance of expert evidence, including that of child psychiatrists.

   Expert witnesses are meant to provide assistance to the courts, but their
role is not very clearly defined in Irish law or in the rules of court. Usually
one party seeks the assistance of a child psychiatrist, who then interviews all
relevant family members, including the other parent, and presents his or her
report to the court.

   In a recent case (see panel) an expert reportedly said in court that the
child in the case suffered from Parental Alienation Syndrome (PAS), meaning that
he had an irrational hostility to his father, as a result of alienation on the
part of his mother. The existence of this syndrome is hotly contested by family
lawyers and psychiatrists in the United States, where the term originated.

   PAS was "discovered" by a psychiatrist called Dr Richard A. Gardner, who put
forward the theory that a parent in a conflict situation, usually the mother,
created such a negative attitude to the other parent in the child that the child
developed an irrational and groundless fear of, and hostility to, the other
parent.

   If no objective basis to this hostility (documented abuse, for example) could
be found, then the child suffered from PAS, classified by Dr Gardner as a
disorder. The only cure for this disorder was exposure to the prolonged company
of the alienated parent, usually by the transfer of custody. This theory was
accepted by a number of the lower courts in different states in the US, and
provided the basis for altering custody arrangements.

   However, the existence of PAS has been accepted by neither the American
Psychiatric Association nor the American Medical Association. Nor does it
feature in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders, the bible of American mental health professionals.

   Dr Gardner, who committed suicide in 2003, had argued that his views had been
accepted by a large number of courts, and that his theories had been widely
published, though the publishing house that published most of his work was owned
by himself. The Internet contains voluminous exchanges between him and his
supporters on the one hand, and his detractors on the other.

   Until now this controversy was nothing more than a sideshow in the fraught
area of American family law, where entrenched positions are taken up by people
on different sides of an increasingly bitter debate split along gender lines.
Various attempts to introduce the theory into family courts in Europe have
failed, and the existence of the syndrome has been vehemently rejected by the
German courts, to name but one jurisdiction.

   The Circuit Court in the Republic does not establish any legal precedent, and
the fact that this theory has, apparently, got a hearing with an individual
Circuit Court judge here means little more than an opportunity for Gardner's
fans to quote the fact on their websites.

   The acceptance of PAS, however, does have implications for the conduct of any
custody case by the judge hearing the case. Because it holds that a child's
hostility to a non-custodial parent is a manifestation of the "syndrome", and
therefore a psychiatric disorder, it means that the court is obliged to dismiss
the wishes of the child to stay with the custodial parent.

   Instead, the child should be cured of its disorder by being forced into the
custody of the other parent against its will.

   This theory therefore trumps Section 3 of the 1964 Guardianship of Infants
Act, which states: "The court shall, as it thinks appropriate and practicable
having regard to the age and understanding of the child, take into account the
child's wishes in the matter." Due to the in camera rule in family law hearings,
it is not known what other psychiatric theories are presented in court, how they
are contested, or indeed what the attitude of the courts is to them.

   "In my personal experience the psychiatrists are very robust in doing their
best for the child," says Muriel Walls, a solicitor specialising in family law.

   But psychiatry is an inexact science, with differing opinions among
psychiatrists, and it is surely in the public interest to know what role it is
playing in our changing family structures. There is also little clarity on how
the courts in Ireland view the role of experts.

   "England and Wales have far greater controls on the role of experts. There
are guidance notes," says Geoffrey Shannon, family law expert and author of the
recently-published seminal text, Child Law. "An expert is there to give an
objective assessment of what the situation is. If he or she forms a view
different from the client he or she has a duty to say that. I don't think that
has filtered through here."

   He says both the Supreme Court and High Court have addressed the issue,
making it clear that the primary adjudicator of the facts, and the final
decision-maker, is the judge. But he adds that a more fundamental issue is at
stake - the absence of any independent voice for the child in such proceedings.

   A key element of the 1997 Children's Act was allowing for a guardian ad litem
for the child "where the specifics of the case demanded it", says Shannon. "Some
of the problems now emerging are caused by the non-implementation of that bit of
the Act." Asked when this bit of the legislation would be implemented, a
spokeswoman for the Department of Justice, Equality and Law Reform says
officials from the Department are in consultation with the National Children's
Office in the Department of Health over the commencement of the provision.


   LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              96 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 The Irish Times
                                The Irish Times

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Features; Pg.

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Behind closed doors

BODY:


   Mary (not her real name) collapsed in court and had to be taken to hospital
by ambulance when she was told custody of her eight-year-old son was being
transferred from her to her estranged partner.

   This followed a hearing in which evidence was reportedly given verbally in
court by a psychiatrist that the boy suffered from "Parental Alienation Syndrome
", with the boy showing aggression towards his father. The recommended treatment
for PAS is the awarding of custody to the non-custodial parent.

   The boy had lived all his life with his mother, much of it in the home of his
maternal grandparents, with his maternal grandmother caring for him while his
mother worked. For the first three-and-a-half years of his life his father had
lived with his mother, some of the time in the family home, but for two years in
the home they shared until the relationship broke up.

   Following the break-up, Mary filed for custody of the boy. This was granted
by the District Court, which also awarded considerable access to the father. The
boy exhibited reluctance to see his father, and there were a number of disputes
about it.

   Mary appealed against the access ruling, while the father appealed against
the custody ruling.

   When the case came up in the Circuit Court, the psychiatrist put forward two
options. The first was that, due to the hostility between the parents, the boy
have no contact with the father until he was older, which would have adverse
effects, and the second that custody be transferred, which would be highly
stressful for both the boy and his mother. The court decided on the latter
course, but later varied it to award joint custody, with the father having
primary care.

   The media are prohibited by law from attending family law cases. They depend,
therefore, on anecdotal reports from those involved, or from one or other of the
legal teams.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              97 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 The Irish Times
                                The Irish Times

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Motors; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: VW goes to court over spoof ad

BYLINE: Michael McAleer

BODY:


   Volkswagen AG has filed criminal charges over a spoof advertisement for its
Polo small car that has been circulating on the Internet, Europe's biggest
carmaker said on Friday.

   The so-called viral ad - unauthorised by Volkswagen or its advertising
agencies - shows a suicide bomber detonating his explosives in a Polo parked
outside a busy cafe, only to have the car absorb the blast.

   The 20-second spot ends with the Volkswagen logo and the Polo's actual
advertising motto: Small but Tough.

   Company spokesman Hartwig von Sass said VW lodged a criminal complaint with
prosecutors in Brunswick, Germany, but did not specify a perpetrator. "This is
an attack on Volkswagen's good name," he said of the ad, which he called cynical
and criminal.

   He could not say who made the film, or with what aim.

   Under German law, it is possible to file charges against persons unknown and
prosecutors and police are obliged to try to track down the perpetrators. The VW
spokesman said the complaint was about "all crimes that could be considered in
this regard".

   Britain's Guardian newspaper reported on its website this week that the ad
was made by a London-based advertising partnership called Lee and Dan, whom the
publication said had apologised, but refused to identify themselves.

   In an interview with the newspaper, a man identified as the ad's director
said he was horrified by the reaction, and had only meant it to be used on a
reel for luring new business, not to be seen by the public.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              98 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 The Jakarta Post
                                The Jakarta Post

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: 4

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: WITNESS SAYS PUTEH RETURNED MONEY

BODY:



   Aceh administration secretary Tantawi Ishak testified at the graft trial of
Abdullah Puteh on Tuesday that the suspended governor had not returned all of
the Rp 7.75 billion (US $ 861,111) transferred to his account.

   Earlier on Monday, Aceh's treasurer Zainudin told the same trial that he had
transferred in 2002 the money into Puteh's personal account for the purchase of
a Russian-made helicopter.

   "The governor returned Rp 1.3 billion on July 24, 2003 and another Rp 2.3
billion, plus Rp 15 million in interest, on July 6, a year later, to the
province's treasury," Tantawi told the AntiCorruption Court in Central Jakarta.

   He said the Rp 3.6 billion was money that had not been released by Puteh to
PT Putra Pobiagan Mandiri (PT PPM), the broker of the MI-2 helicopter, as the
company had failed to fulfill its commitment to train the pilots of the
choppers, the secretary added.

   Prosecutors said the money had been returned after the Corruption Eradication
Commission (KPK) began its probe into Puteh on charges of marking up the price
of the helicopter.

   When asked by the judges whether the governor was allowed to use his personal
account for official business, Tantawi said that, as the highest authority in
the province, the governor was allowed to do so.

   "I am not aware of any regulation that prohibits the use of a personal
account for such a purpose," the witness said.

   After the hearing, Tantawi told The Jakarta Post that Puteh opened Account
No. 01.01.038.492 at Bank Bukopin after being elected in 2000 as Aceh governor.

   "So, the account was opened under Abdullah Puteh's name as the governor but
it was not a personal account," Tantawi said.

   Another witness, Adi Bramantya, from Bank Bukopin admitted that Puteh's
account was opened as a personal account, not an official one.

   Commenting on this issue, a professor specializing in administrative law,
Ryaas Rasyid, said the use of a personal account for official business violated
regulations on financial administration.

   "Everybody has the right to have a personal account, but it cannot be used
for official business. Purchasing a helicopter is official business, therefore
the use of a personal account is not permitted under the law," he said.

   Ryaas said that even though Puteh had returned the money, he had still
breached the law and should be held accountable.

   "I heard that he returned the money after he was investigated by the KPK.
That won't annul the fact that he violated administrative regulations," the
expert said. (006)

JOURNAL-CODE: FJKP

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              99 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 The Jakarta Post
                                The Jakarta Post

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: 7

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: EAST TIMOR: JUSTICE FOR WHOM?

BYLINE: Adirito de Jesus Soares, Dili

BODY:



   Many people have commented about the first 100 days of President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono's presidency. One of his campaign promises, as we know, was to
deal specifically with corruption -- one of most acute problems facing
Indonesia.

   On the one hand, this promise shows the seriousness of SBY's government, at
least in public, in establishing good governance and democracy. However, he has
ignored the issue of human rights violations committed by state apparatus over
the last several decades This includes crimes against humanity that took place
in East Timor during the illegal occupation by the Indonesian regime. People
might recall some of the other big atrocities, such as the killing of alleged
Indonesian Communist Party (PKI) members in 1965 and more recent cases like the
May 1998 riots were thousands of people were killed. We can add to this list
cases like human rights violations in Aceh, Papua and Maluku.

   In relation to human rights violations in East Timor, East Timorese Minister
of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation Ramos Horta and his Indonesian counterpart
Hassan Wirayuda met with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and then U.S. secretary
of state Colin Powell in Washington in December last year. In these meetings,
the two foreign ministers proposed what they called the International Truth and
Friendship Commission to deal with crimes against humanity that took place in
East Timor during and after the 1999 referendum there.

   It is not yet clear what the mandate of this commission would be. However, as
explained by Horta, it seems that the commission would have the task of naming
those who committed human rights violations in East Timor. Horta, the main
proponent of this commission, has been campaigning for this proposal while
ignoring the voices of the victims in East Timor.

   Of course this proposal has attained significant support from the Indonesian
government, since it would avoid the demands of victims both in Indonesia and
East Timor who are still pursuing justice by demanding the establishment of an
international tribunal to try the alleged perpetrators.

   In other word, this commission would pave the way for the perpetrators to
keep enjoying their impunity. In contrast, in the eyes of the victims, an
international tribunal would put an end to the impunity enjoyed by those who
committed human rights violations both in East Timor and Indonesia.

   Horta and Wirayuda's proposal seems especially odd as Kofi Annan is preparing
to establish a Commission of Experts in order to carry out an assessment of the
ad hoc Human Rights Court in Jakarta and the Special Panel Court in Dili. These
two tribunals have a mandate to try those who committed crimes against humanity
in East Timor prior to and after the referendum in 1999.

   It has been more than obvious that these two tribunals have not offered any
real justice to the victims of 1999. The ad hoc Human Rights Court in Jakarta is
merely a show, with the main alleged perpetrators being acquitted, while the
Special Panel Court in Dili has no teeth to bring to court those big fish who
are still residing in Indonesia.

   So what exactly is the hidden agenda behind this odd proposal? It appears
that the underlying aim of the commission is to put bilateral relations between
East Timor and Indonesia ahead of justice for the victims or rights abuses. It
is obvious that pragmatic politics always puts aside justice for victims in the
name of leaders who claim to represent them.

   The international community, through the UN, has a noble mission of dealing
with perpetrators of gross human rights violations as hostis humani generis --
enemies of mankind.

   Consistently, the UN has to push for the idea of establishing a Commission of
Experts in order to carry out an assessment. If this assessment takes place,
then the UN has to work out how to find an alternative, which could be an
international tribunal if the assessment shows that there is no hope for justice
via the present mechanisms. This is consistent with all of the UN's earlier
findings and recommendations after the 1999 East Timor referendum.

   It is likely, however, that Horta and Wirayuda's proposal will bypass and
undermine Kofi Annan's idea of establishing a Commission of Experts. Worse
still, this proposal shows where the leaders' real interests lie, and for sure
it is not justice for the victims.

   The author, a lawyer and human rights advocate, is a former member of East
Timor's Constituent Assembly and currently teaches at Dili University. He can be
contacted at sahe_lib@yahoo.com

JOURNAL-CODE: FJKP

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              100 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2345 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
COLUMN ONE;
Maybe Anyone Can Be President;
Support is growing to amend the Constitution to let foreign-born citizens lead
the nation. So, which governor comes to mind?

BYLINE: Joe Mathews, Times Staff Writer

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Blame Austria.

   In 1772, Austria joined Prussia and Russia in dividing up Poland, which had
been weakened by the election of a foreign-born head of state.

   Fifteen years later, America's Founding Fathers, leery of repeating Poland's
experience, added the following to their new Constitution: "No person except a
natural born citizen ... shall be eligible to the Office of President."

   Today, a national -- if fledgling -- campaign is underway to allow
foreign-born citizens to hold the nation's highest office. Supporters expect
congressional hearings on the proposal this year.

   Long considered quixotic and un-serious, the effort is taking on
interest-group support, money and organization. And although Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger has publicly asked to be left out of the debate, it is the
political ascent of the governor, who holds both Austrian and American
citizenship, that is attracting attention to the issue.

   Among backers of various proposed constitutional amendments are members of
both political parties and some of America's most liberal and conservative
legislators. Both the incoming and outgoing chairmen of the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, which considers constitutional amendments, support the
change.

   "This restriction has become an anachronism that is decidedly un-American,"
Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), the past chairman, said recently.

   Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), who succeeded Hatch, said of Schwarzenegger: "The
guy has become governor of California. What more credentials could you ask?"

   Some senators are less enthusiastic. The ranking Democrat on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, Patrick Leahy of Vermont, has denounced the legislative
attention to the issue, saying the Senate had more pressing matters.

   Just 27 of more than 10,000 amendments proposed have succeeded. To amend the
Constitution, a proposal needs the support of two-thirds of both houses of
Congress, followed by ratification by 38 states. The Constitution also can be
amended when two-thirds of state legislatures call for a constitutional
convention (which has never occurred).

   Only on rare occasions when there is consensus does this happen quickly: The
26th Amendment lowering the voting age to 18 was ratified in four months in
1971.

   Polls show that most Americans oppose amending the "natural born clause,"
though a Gallup Poll released recently showed that opposition fell -- from 67%
to 58% -- when Schwarzenegger's name was mentioned to those surveyed. A Field
Poll last fall found that even in California, where Schwarzenegger's approval
ratings then approached 70%, nearly 60% of registered voters surveyed opposed a
constitutional amendment.

   Nonetheless, support for the idea has started to build. Immigrants' rights
organizations, veterans groups and people who have adopted children from other
nations have begun to speak out on the need to change the Constitution.

   Three organizations have been formed to advocate for an amendment. Meetings
to plan a campaign for the measure are scheduled for this month in Pasadena,
Indian Wells, San Diego and Santa Barbara, and in Florida in March.

   Amendment advocates offer many arguments. Children born overseas and adopted
by American families, they say, know no other country; why should they not be
able to lead it?

   Statistics are often cited in their arguments. With the U.S. doubling its
number of naturalized citizens -- from 6.5 million in 1990 to more than 12
million today -- ineligible citizens make up a growing percentage of the
population. Many foreign-born people have risked their lives or died for the
country (700 have earned the Medal of Honor, the highest U.S. military
decoration.).

   And if American-born convicts or terrorists are constitutionally eligible,
why not Schwarzenegger or Jennifer Granholm, the Canadian-born Democratic
governor of Michigan?

   It is Schwarzenegger's case, though, that has added stardust to the emerging
coalition in favor of an amendment.

   A contingent of chiropractors, some of whom meet each year during
Schwarzenegger's annual fitness expo in Ohio, is speaking out in favor. A
political consultant for the governor is monitoring the issue on his behalf. A
Silicon Valley donor to his campaigns has started a website,
www.amendforarnold.com, and made two TV ads in favor of the amendment, and in
January opened a full-time office on a Menlo Park thoroughfare for her
organization, Amendus.org.

   "He's done everything but send us smoke signals," says that donor, Lissa
Morgenthaler-Jones, who boasts of volunteers in all 50 states.

   Although the governor has been coy about his ambitions, his interest in the
presidency is neither new nor a secret.

   In an outtake from the 1970s documentary "Pumping Iron," Schwarzenegger --
not yet a U.S. citizen -- is asked at a bodybuilding tournament when he will run
for president. Schwarzenegger's firm answer: "When [Richard] Nixon gets
impeached."

   Moreover, Schwarzenegger as a potential president is a notion with a long
history. In a 1991 satirical novel, "The Americans Are Coming!" Schwarzenegger
defeats game show host Pat Sajak in a 1996 presidential election, overcoming
"the old steroid stories and the Hitler stuff."

   "It was meant to be a laugh," says author Alex Beam, now a columnist for the
Boston Globe.

   Two years after the novel, the notion of a Schwarzenegger presidency was
dropped into a Sylvester Stallone sci-fi movie, "Demolition Man." In the movie,
Stallone's character is frozen and awakened in 2032, when he is shocked to learn
from co-star Sandra Bullock that Schwarzenegger has been president.

   All that may still seem outlandish to Americans, but there is at least one
place where a significant number of people anticipate a Schwarzenegger White
House. A poll last year found that 37% of Austrians believe the governor of
California will become president of the United States one day.

   *

   The term "natural born" entered American history in a July 25, 1787, letter
from John Jay, who became the first chief justice of the United States, to
George Washington, then serving as president of the constitutional convention in
Philadelphia.

   "Permit me to hint," Jay wrote, "whether it would not be wise and seasonable
to provide a strong check to the admission of foreigners into the administration
of our national government; and to declare expressly that the Command in Chief
of the American army shall not be given to, nor devolve on, any but a natural
born citizen."

   Jay did not set out his reasons, but fears of foreign influence ran deep.
Rumors abounded that the convention was planning a monarch and would invite the
second son of George III to wear the crown. And there had been the partition of
Poland.

   Two days after Washington sent Jay a note of reply, the Constitution's
drafting committee revised its clause on presidential eligibility. "No person
except a natural born citizen or a citizen of the U.S. at the time of the
adoption of this Constitution shall be eligible."

   The provision kept out only future foreign-born citizens. The grandfather
clause made every single framer of the Constitution -- seven of them
foreign-born -- eligible for the presidency.

   The debate over the clause began while the ink on the Constitution was still
wet.

   There have been at least 35 attempts to eliminate the clause, according to
research by Washington lawyer Jim Ho in the law journal Green Bag.

   Most of the proposed amendments have been introduced in the years immediately
after wars. The clause came closest to demise in the years after the Civil War,
when a surge of proposals produced the 13th, 14th and 15th amendments.

   In 1871 and 1872, the matter reached a vote in Congress; each time, the
amendment received a majority of those voting but fell short of the two-thirds
required for passage.

   The years after World War II saw 10 amendments proposed. The end of the
Vietnam era sparked a similar boomlet, with eight amendments offered between
1971 and 1975.

   The latest surge of interest dates to 1999, when media reports first
suggested that Schwarzenegger was taking a serious look at his political career.

   That year, Raimundo Delgado, an immigrant from the Azores and a schoolteacher
in New Bedford, Mass., wrote a two-page letter to his congressman, Democrat
Barney Frank, suggesting that the clause be eliminated.

   Frank liked Delgado's idea. The congressman introduced an amendment and, in
July 2000, a House subcommittee held a little-noticed hearing on it.

   Hatch, who has known Schwarzenegger for at least a decade, introduced the
Equal Opportunity to Govern Amendment in July 2003. It would allow people who
have been citizens for 20 years to serve as president. Schwarzenegger was
naturalized in September 1983.

   In October 2003, four days before California's recall election that made
Schwarzenegger governor, the Utah senator said in a speech in Washington that he
could see Schwarzenegger as president.

   "If he turns out to be a tremendous leader and he proves to everybody in this
country that he's totally dedicated to this country as an American," Hatch said,
"we would be wrong not to give him that opportunity."

   Over the last two years, Hatch's amendment in the Senate has been joined by
three similar amendments in the House. U.S. Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.)
sponsored an amendment with a similar 20-year citizenship requirement, saying
that Granholm, the foreign-born governor of his state, "would make an
outstanding candidate."

   On a different front, Rep. Vic Snyder (D-Ark.), one of a group of lawmakers
who work on international adoption issues, introduced an amendment that would
allow citizens of 35 years' standing to be president. It drew a dozen
co-sponsors. Snyder's niece, who was adopted from South Korea as a baby, "is a
teenager now, and she is very much aware that she's not eligible to run for
president," he says.

   Schwarzenegger's California election immediately added to the amendment
proposal's profile. He endorsed the idea of changing the clause in a February
2004 appearance on "Meet the Press."

   In early October, Hatch held a full hearing of the Judiciary Committee to
consider the amendment. Afterward, Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), who has
repeatedly fought various efforts to change the Constitution, endorsed amending
the clause.

   But Schwarzenegger's high profile has also energized the opposition. A Texas
radio host, who often inveighs against what he calls a worldwide globalist
conspiracy, has formed a group called Americans Against Arnold, which opposes
the amendment proposals.

   Commentators and editorial pages have argued that the Constitution should not
be changed unless absolutely necessary. California politicians, including
Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Hungarian-born Rep. Tom Lantos (D-San
Mateo), have weighed in against it.

   "I think this amendment, if it receives two-thirds in Congress, will have a
very hard time being adopted by three-quarters of the legislatures of the
states," Feinstein said in Congress last fall.

   For his part, the amendment's most famous potential beneficiary mentions the
idea only in answer to questions -- or when he wants a laugh.

   Last year, Schwarzenegger began a speech to a convention of travel agents
this way: "Thank you very much for changing the Constitution of the United
States of America, and I accept the nomination for president. Wait a minute,
this is the wrong speech!"

   Times staff writer Richard Simon in Washington contributed to this report.

   *

   Constitutional options

   Only 27 out of more than 10,000 proposals have actually survived the
amendment process to become part of the Constitution. So an attempt to amend the
nation's charter - and remove a key obstacle for a presidential bid by
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger - is a longshot at best.

   Two methods for amendments:

   2/3 majority votes

   The U.S. House and Senate each approves the bill by a two-thirds majority.

   Ratification is required by 38 states

   Constitutional convention

   Must be called by two-thirds of the legislatures of the states.

   Yes: 38 states

   **

   History of change

   Congressional passage, rather than a constitutional convention, has been used
for all ratified amendments. Most of those were fairly rapidly approved by the
states. The Constitution sets no time limit, but Congress can require
ratification within seven years. The most recent change, the 27th Amendment,

took 203 years.
                                Passed by Ratification
Amendment                       Congress  achieved
1-10: Bill of Rights            1789      1791
11: Judicial Limits             1794      1795
12: Choosing Pres., V.P.        1803      1804
13: Slavery Abolished           1865      1865
14: Citizenship Rights          1866      1868
15: Race No Bar to Vote         1869      1870
16: Income Tax Authorized       1909      1913
17: Sen. Elected by Pop. Vote   1912      1913
18: Liquor Prohibited           1917      1919
19: Women's Suffrage            1919      1920
20: Presidential, Cong. Terms   1932      1933
21: Liquor Prohibition Repealed 1933      1933
22: Presidential Term Limits    1947      1951
23: Presidential Vote for D.C.  1960      1961
24: Poll Taxes Barred           1962      1964
25: Pres. Disability/Succession 1965      1967
26: Voting Age Set to 18 Years  1971      1971
27: Congressional Pay Raises    1789      1992


   **

   Failed attempts

   Six amendments, which were passed by Congress, have failed to make their way
into the Constitution:

   Proposed amendment: Original 1st Amend.

   Subject: U.S. House composition

   Proposed: 1789

   Last ratification: 1791

   States ratifying: 10

   Status: Pending

   *

   Proposed amendment: Anti-Title

   Subject: Citizens accepting nobility

   Proposed: 1810

   Last ratification: 1812

   States ratifying: 12

   Status: Pending

   *

   Proposed amendment: Slavery

   Subject: Banning federal interference in state institutions

   Proposed: 1861

   Last ratification: 1862

   States ratifying: 2

   Status: Pending

   *

   Proposed amendment: Child Labor

   Subject: Regulate labor by those younger than 18 years

   Proposed: 1926

   Last ratification: 1937

   States ratifying: 28

   Status: Pending

   *

   Proposed amendment: Equal Rights

   Subject: Codify equality of sexes

   Proposed: 1972

   Last ratification: N/A

   States ratifying: N/A

   Status: Expired 1982

   *

   Proposed amendment: D.C. Voting

   Subject: District representation in Congress

   Proposed: 1978

   Last ratification: N/A

   States ratifying: N/A

   Status: Expired 1985

   *

   Sources: www.usconstitution.net; Emory University School of Law Electronic
Reference Desk. Graphics reporting by Tom Reinken

   LORENA INIGUEZ Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              101 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Hahn Donor Case Faulted;
Defense says charges from 2001 campaign should be voided under city's 2-year
statute of limitations. Prosecution says state law applies.

BYLINE: Patrick McGreevy and Rachana Rathi, Times Staff Writers

BODY:

   An attorney for a prominent lawyer charged with laundering political
contributions to Mayor James K. Hahn appeared in court Tuesday to argue that the
charges should be dismissed.

   In addition, attorneys for seven other defendants who have been accused of
having their donations to Hahn reimbursed by the lawyer, Pierce O'Donnell, also
asked the judge to dismiss all charges.

   "There are a number of very significant arguments that have been made,"
Superior Court Judge Ann I. Jones said after the daylong hearing. She said she
would issue a ruling Feb. 10.

   The district attorney's office filed misdemeanor charges against O'Donnell
and two other Los Angeles lawyers in May for allegedly making illegal
contributions to Hahn's 2001 mayoral election.

   O'Donnell faces 26 charges of making contributions in other people's names,
which could result in a maximum sentence of 13 years in prison.

   Prosecutors allege that O'Donnell gathered $25,500 for Hahn's campaign from
others and reimbursed them. Hahn has denied any knowledge that O'Donnell
reimbursed contributions made to his 2001 campaign by other donors.

   George L. O'Connell, an attorney for O'Donnell, argued that prosecutors erred
in bringing charges under state law rather than city law because the allegations
involve a local election.

   City law has a two-year statute of limitations, which has expired, while the
state statute of limitations is four years.

   However, Deputy Dist. Atty. Juliet Schmidt argued that the allegations are
covered by the state Political Reform Act, so the charges were appropriate.

   "The integrity of elections is a statewide concern," Schmidt said.

   Schmidt and Deputy Dist. Atty. Ricardo Ocampo, both with the Public Integrity
Division, told the judge they may file different charges against some of the
defendants after the judge questioned why those allegedly reimbursed by O
'Donnell were charged with improper identification of donors rather than aiding
and abetting O'Donnell.

   "They actually contributed money in their own name but the source of the
actual funds was Mr. O'Donnell," Ocampo told the judge. "They are basically
straw donors."

   O'Donnell, 57, was recovering from hip surgery Tuesday and was not in court.

   Attorneys for some of the defendants whom O'Donnell allegedly reimbursed
argued that their clients were unfairly charged after prosecutors granted them
immunity from having their statements to the city Ethics Commission used against
them.

   "It's a prohibited use of immunized testimony," said Stephen Sadowsky.

   The prosecutors said they built their case with evidence that is independent
from the statements.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              102 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: 250 Picked for Jackson Jury Pool;
The judge in the singer's child-molestation case takes a day and a half to
narrow the field of candidates. Relatively few ask to be dismissed.

BYLINE: Eric Slater and Sally Ann Connell, Special to The Times

DATELINE:  SANTA MARIA, Calif.

BODY:

   The second day of Michael Jackson's trial on child-molestation charges ended
early Tuesday, when Santa Barbara County Superior Court Judge Rodney S. Melville
abruptly halted jury selection, saying he had interviewed enough potential
panelists.

   "Roughly 250 people qualified," Melville announced before adjourning late in
the morning. "And I'm ready to go."

   He had culled those potential jurors from an initial pool of 750 residents.
Melville said he believed he had enough candidates to name a panel of 12 jurors
and eight alternates.

   Although the trial could last six months, relatively few potential jurors
asked to opt out. Not an elderly woman. Not a middle-aged woman caring for her
elderly mother. Not a man on probation wearing an electronic monitoring
bracelet.

   And those few who did want out faced a tough sell.

   When one woman told the judge Tuesday that she had to take her son to a
medical appointment on Feb. 9, Melville responded: "You don't know how lucky you
are. We're going to be closed down Feb. 9" for a scheduled recess.

   He granted a single exception, to a woman four months pregnant -- but only
after grilling her.

   Prosecutors and defense attorneys now face a dilemma, court observers and
jury experts agree: the potential of selecting someone whose primary interest
may be fame or fortune -- a stealth juror.

   "I don't think the defense would be well-served by trying to pick Michael
Jackson fans," said forensic psychologist and jury consultant Martin H.
Williams. "If there turns out to be compelling evidence against [the singer], a
disappointed Michael Jackson fan could turn on the 'King of Pop.' "

   On Tuesday, the crowd outside the courthouse was less than half the size of
the one the day before, and a serious atmosphere had descended. The jury could
send Jackson, 46, to prison for 20 years if he is convicted on all 10 counts.

   "Eh, it's kind of boring now," Kathy Hill, 22, of San Francisco said shortly
before noon as she and a group of friends packed up their car. "We're gonna go
home. We'll probably come back, though."

   Nothing could happen until the potential jurors, and Jackson, were in place
at 10 a.m.

   At 9:45 a.m., Jackson rode up to the courthouse in a black SUV. He exited
wearing a black suit, a fashion choice noted by fans because on Monday he wore a
white suit.

   Jackson smiled for the cameras and flashed a V sign with his fingers.

   "He's smooth but he's not a criminal" read one placard, referring to Jackson
's hit song "Smooth Criminal." A shriek went up, but the crowd had dwindled to
fewer than 100 from several hundred on Monday.

   Many of the chain-link fences had come down. Traffic flowed through a city
with just a handful of closed streets. On the courthouse lawn, a group of
lawn-bowlers held their regular game as television reporters performed live
stand-ups.

   Once inside, Jackson appeared as serious as anyone about selecting his jury.

   For the second day in a row, Jackson made for good photographs but little
news -- forgoing such past antics as dancing atop his limousine in front of the
courthouse at his arraignment just over a year ago.

   Jackson is charged with 10 felony counts for allegedly molesting a
13-year-old boy two years ago. He has pleaded not guilty, and his family and
supporters have taken to the airwaves to defend Jackson -- whose legal troubles
began in 1993 when he was investigated for allegedly molesting another boy.

   He later settled with that boy and his family out of court, for an amount
some believe to be well into the millions of dollars. Jackson's defense is
expected to argue that the boy in the current case was pressured by his family
to accuse Jackson so that they could sue him for money.

   The prosecution, meanwhile, is expected to argue that Jackson molested the
boy -- who was being treated for cancer -- after giving him wine to drink. Santa
Barbara County Dist. Atty. Thomas Sneddon, who investigated but never charged
Jackson in the 1993 case, plans to show the jury such evidence as a pair of boys
underpants found in Jackson's bedroom, along with pornography and
sweetly-worded, childish notes that Jackson wrote to the boy.

   The boy is expected to testify, as is his younger brother, who was 11 when
Jackson invited the boys and their family to his 2,700-acre retreat in the
mountains near Santa Maria.

   While Jackson was getting a glimpse of those who may well decide his fate,
pundits debated on television about how the young accuser and his brother should
be questioned -- tough versus gentle -- and the type of panel each side should
seek.

   Williams, the psychologist and jury consultant, who is not working on the
Jackson case, said the prosecution and defense are looking for jurors to fit
different profiles.

   "If you were the prosecution, you would want jurors to find the very idea of
Michael Jackson and his lifestyle despicable," said Williams. "For the defense,
obviously, you want people who are more open-minded."

   Jackson sat calmly and quietly, paying close attention as Melville questioned
each potential juror. Only about 65 asked to be excused.

   One woman said she was recovering from breast cancer.

   A young man said he worked for the Navy and had to report to Hawaii in April.
"I tried to ask people at my base, but no one would really even believe that I
have been called to serve on this case," he said.

   Several women cited their pregnancies. The one who is four months along made
a strong case when she said: "I don't know if I would make it to the end of the
trial."

   *

   Slater is a Times staff writer and Connell is a special correspondent. Both
reported from Santa Maria. Times staff writer Steve Chawkins contributed to this
report.

   *

   Jackson highlights

   Aug. 29, 1958: Michael Jackson is born in Gary, Ind.

   1964: The Jackson Five is formed with Michael as the lead singer.

   Oct. 14, 1972: His first solo No. 1 single, "Ben," is released.

   1978: He makes his film debut playing the scarecrow in "The Wiz."

   Jan. 18, 1980: He dominates the American Music Awards in the soul categories,
with awards for favorite male vocalist, favorite single ("Don't Stop 'Til You
Get Enough") and favorite album ("Off the Wall").

   December 1982: "Thriller," his biggest album, breaks music world records. It
is No. 1 in the U.S. for 37 straight weeks.

   1985: He co-writes "We Are the World" with Lionel Richie. The same year he
invests $40 million in the catalogue that controls the rights to the Beatles'
songs.

   1987: He reportedly offers $1 million for Elephant Man's skeleton. Also that
year, he releases the album "Bad," another international hit.

   March 1991: He signs a 15-year contract with Sony, reportedly worth $1
billion.

   Aug. 17, 1993: The LAPD launches a criminal investigation of Jackson after a
13-year-old boy claims the singer sexually abused him.

   Sept. 14, 1993: The boy files a civil suit against Jackson, which he
eventually settles for a reported $15 million.

   May 26, 1994: He marries Lisa Marie Presley.

   Sept. 21, 1994: Prosecutors say no charges will be filed against Jackson
because the boy refuses to testify.

   Jan. 18, 1996: Lisa Marie divorces him.

   Nov. 15, 1996: He marries nurse Debbie Rowe, then six months pregnant.

   Feb. 13, 1997: Son Prince is born to Michael and Debbie.

   Nov. 18, 2003: Law enforcement officers descend on Neverland ranch, searching
the amusement park estate for evidence.

   Nov. 20, 2003: He is charged with multiple counts of child molestation.

   April 30, 2004: Prosecutors unseal a grand jury indictment accusing him of
conspiracy involving child abduction, false imprisonment and extortion and
molesting a 12-year-old boy. He pleads not guilty.

   *

   Sources: Times research. Compiled by Robin Mayper

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FANS: Supporters of Michael Jackson greet the singer as he
arrives for the second day of jury selection in his child-molestation trial.
Jackson, 46, is accused of sexually abusing a 13-year-old boy at his Neverland
ranch in 2003.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Jon Austria AFP/Getty Images PHOTO: DEPARTURE: Pop
star Michael Jackson, who is facing 10 felony counts, leans out of the window of
his SUV to smile at fans as he leaves the courthouse in Santa Maria, Calif., on
Tuesday.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Brendan McDermid European Pressphoto Agency

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              103 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Jury Convicts LAPD Officer of Fraud

BYLINE: Richard Winton, Times Staff Writer

BODY:

   Jurors took half an hour Tuesday to convict a veteran Los Angeles police
officer of workers' compensation fraud after seeing surveillance videotape of
her working at Dodger Stadium as she was collecting temporary disability
payments.

   Mariana Carmen Gallegos, who was assigned to the LAPD's internal affairs
unit, which investigates officer wrongdoing, faces up to five years in prison.
She will be fired unless her conviction is overturned on appeal, the LAPD said.

   The verdict marks the first time that an LAPD officer has been convicted of
workers' compensation fraud, prosecutors said. No LAPD officer has been
convicted in Los Angeles County of a felony in five years.

   Gallegos, an officer for nine years, was convicted of concealing information
and workers' compensation fraud, Deputy Dist. Atty. Renee Korn said. A grand
theft charge was dismissed during the trial.

   "This was a case about greed. She became too greedy," Korn said. "She lied
about what she was doing and repeatedly lied in court."

   Gallegos' attorney could not be reached for comment.

   The LAPD discovered that Gallegos was working as a security guard at Staples
Center and Dodger Stadium in the summer of 2003 while she was on total temporary
disability and collecting $11,000 in benefits.

   An LAPD surveillance team captured Gallegos walking and standing while
working as an armed guard for Dodger Stadium concessions.

   Korn said such work was more physically demanding than her LAPD desk
assignment.

   "I am gratified by today's jury verdict," said Police Chief William J.
Bratton. "The LAPD will not tolerate any abuse of the workers' compensation
system. As we did in the case of Ms. Gallegos, we will aggressively seek out
those officers who compromise the safety of the public and their fellow officers
by failure to report to duty when they are physically capable of performing
their duty."

   On Aug. 14, 2003, a doctor placed Gallegos on temporary total disability
because of an injury that she had suffered on duty five years earlier. Later, an
LAPD supervisor who worked a second job at Staples noticed her name on a Staples
shift roster.

   At trial, Gallegos insisted that she was unaware that she could not have
other jobs while out injured, Korn said.

   The conviction, Korn said, means that Gallegos will lose her job.

   "As a police officer who cannot be truthful, she won't be upholding the law
and serving the community anymore," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              104 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: SPORTS; Sports Desk; Part D; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: NEWSWIRE;
Hingis Falls in First Round of Comeback Appearance

BYLINE: From Times Staff and Wire Reports

BODY:

   Former world No. 1 Martina Hingis' comeback was spoiled Tuesday when Marlene
Weingartner of Germany beat her, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2, in a first-round match at the
Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand.

   Hingis looked far slower than she did before taking a two-year break to
recuperate from a severe ankle injury. The five-time Swiss Grand Slam champion
last competed in a WTA tournament in October 2002 at Filderstadt, Germany, where
she lost to Elena Dementieva.

   Hingis was composed after the loss, telling reporters the match had been "a
nice experience" but that she had no set plans for an extended comeback or to
play other tournaments.

   Hingis said the two-year layoff had taken a toll.

   "The foot is still all right now," she said. "But we will see tomorrow. I'm
25 now. It's hard for me physically. I'm not 18 years old anymore."

   *

   Third-seeded Mario Ancic beat Bohdan Ulihrach, 6-4, 7-5, in the first round
of the Milan Indoors in Italy. Sixth-seeded Rainer Schuettler ousted 2002
champion Davide Sanguinetti, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3.

   *

   Japan's top player, Ai Sugiyama, was eliminated, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, by Roberta
Vinci in the Pan Pacific Open in Tokyo. Four-time tournament champion Lindsay
Davenport will play today.

   College Football

   Tennessee's Phillip Fulmer received a raise that will push his salary to
$2.05 million annually, putting him among the top paid coaches in college
football.

   Fulmer's contract was increased from nearly $1.8 million annually and
extended by one year to 2011, officials said. Fulmer, 54, is 123-31 at the
school.

   Other coaches making $2 million or more annually include Florida State's
Bobby Bowden, Oklahoma's Bob Stoops, Texas' Mack Brown and Florida's Urban
Meyer. Auburn Coach Tommy Tuberville has agreed to a $2-million-plus deal.

   Former Washington athletic director Barbara Hedges testified in Kent, Wash.,
that she didn't initially read the full text of an e-mail that mistakenly
authorized gambling by athletic department employees in NCAA basketball pools.

   The mistake made by former Washington compliance director Dana Richardson is
a cornerstone of former coach Rick Neuheisel's lawsuit against the university
and NCAA.

   Hedges' testimony came on the second day of trial of the lawsuit. Neuheisel
contends he was unfairly fired in June 2003 and that the NCAA wrongly pressured
the school to dismiss him.

   Former Michigan State assistant Brad Lawing testified in Memphis, Tenn., that
he was told money had been paid to Trezevant High Coach Lynn Lang to influence
defensive lineman Albert Means' choice of college. He also said Lang demanded
$200,000 to persuade Means to pick Michigan State.

   The rebuttal witness for the prosecution was called after the defense rested
in the trial of businessman Logan Young, accused of paying $150,000 to Lang to
influence Means.

   Both sides made closing arguments and the U.S. District Court jury is
expected to begin its deliberations today.

   Baseball

   The controversy over the Angels' name change has not hurt the team at the box
office. In their debut year as the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, the team
expects to sell a record 27,000 season tickets, spokesman Tim Mead said.

   The season could be two-thirds sold out -- more than 2.4 million tickets --
before single-game tickets go on sale. The Angels expect to sell enough
partial-season packages to account for the equivalent of another 3,000 season
tickets, Mead said. Angel Stadium seats 45,050.

   In their American League West championship season last year, the then-Anaheim
Angels sold 21,894 full-season tickets and the equivalent of another 3,026
through partial-season packages, Mead said.

   Trans-West Inc., a Denver truck dealership, won a $363,000 verdict against
former Colorado Rockie controlling owner Jerry McMorris after accusing him of
fraud in the liquidation of his bankrupt Westway Express trucking company in
2003.

   Miscellany

   Billy McNicol, a former player and longtime coach, was hired as an assistant
by the Galaxy. McNicol, 50, will also coach the Galaxy's reserve team in the MLS
developmental league.

   The condition of injured jockey Gary Boulanger was upgraded from critical to
serious after surgery to remove his spleen and a blood clot on his brain.
Boulanger, 37, was hurt Sunday in a spill at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale
Beach, Fla.

   Jody Berry of Beverly Hills, one-time professional heavyweight fighter from
Owensboro, Ky., whose eventual Hollywood entertainment career brought him the
label of "The Singing Fighter," died Jan. 18 after a long battle with cancer.
Berry was 68.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              105 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: SPORTS; Sports Desk; Part D; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: J.A. Adande;
Jackson Could Add a Chapter

BYLINE: J.A. Adande

BODY:

   Whoops.

   Anyone down for a do-over?

   As another man with multiple championship rings apparently makes his way out
of Lakerland, taking with him another piece of the facade that masked a
crumbling organization, it's quite possible the Lakers' best hope for the future
comes from their recent past: Phil Jackson. That was the name swirling around
Staples Center on Tuesday night.

   It sounds like a twisted tabloid cover, doesn't it?

   It's Not Over Yet: Brad and Jennifer, Back Together!

   As implausible as this might seem, choosing Jackson to fill a sudden,
mysterious void created by Rudy Tomjanovich would actually make sense for
everyone involved ... except Phil Jackson. But if the Lakers are willing to
resume where negotiations left off a year ago -- somewhere around $10 million --
it would almost be worth his while. At the very least, he could gather some
great epilogue material for the paperback version of "The Last Season."

   One of Jackson's confidants laughed at me when I mentioned the possibility of
a Jackson homecoming Tuesday. (Jackson is somewhere in the Australian Outback
right now.)

   But there's a lot of logic to it.

   Jerry Buss has watched his Lakers diminish into what he'd always dreaded:
just another team. You could see it in the pockets of empty seats and occasional
empty suites in Staples Center for Tuesday night's victory over the Portland
Trail Blazers. For weeks, arena employees have bemoaned the lack of buzz at
Laker games.

   If Jackson comes back to the franchise whose inner workings he just detailed,
Buss' Lakers are once again the story in sports.

   Kobe Bryant's image has been shredded -- thanks in part to Jackson's book --
and what better way for him to look like a good guy than by endorsing the return
of the prodigal father?

   Could Bryant do it? Could he coexist with the man who tore him up in print?

   Here's one indication: Last week he manned up, broke the ice and we had our
first cordial conversation in almost a year. And I've written much worse things
about him than Jackson ever did.

   After their much-needed break from each other, it didn't take long for Bryant
to see that Jackson's ways weren't all that bad. He even endorsed a return to
the triangle offense one-third of the way through this season, when he saw that
he could get the ball in advantageous positions with a little operating room
instead of trying to dribble against a steady stream of double coverage.

   You could line up a parade of talking heads to analyze why fans were more
forgiving of Bryant when he was accused of sexual assault in 2003 than when he
was accused of running off Jackson and Shaquille O'Neal and alienating Karl
Malone in 2004. No one ever said sports fans were rational. But coming out in
favor of Jackson would get Kobe off one of those hooks.

   The problem is, coaches' second acts at the same location rarely if ever go
as well as their first. Ask Joe Gibbs how much he's enjoying his return to the
Washington Redskin sidelines.

   Jackson's standards are impossible for anyone to recapture -- even himself.
He won't go to four NBA Finals in five years again. So why risk losing the
damage to his mystique, let alone his stellar playoff winning percentage?

   Because the Lakers aren't in position to win.

   What's sad is that Tomjanovich's resignation or retirement or health
sabbatical or whatever you want to call it isn't a killer blow to the season. It
's the latest indication of a franchise adrift, a meandering show desperately in
need of a strong script and an authoritative director.

   It's the reverberation of a shock wave that began with the exodus of Jerry
West in 2000.

   Now we see the magnitude of the failure to extend Jackson's contract before
the 2003-04 season began. Both sides indicated they were close when training
camp began in 2003. But the longer they lingered without a deal, the more
defiant Kobe Bryant became, fully aware that if it came down to a choice between
him and Jackson, Buss would bet his future on the talented young guard.

   That caused Jackson, in turn, to become increasingly intolerant of Bryant and
made it a me-or-him-issue, and the Lakers chose, as O'Neal would say, him. The
team's last offer was removed from the table shortly thereafter and Jackson was
a lame duck.

   If they had kept Jackson, they'd have a coach now. They wouldn't be searching
all over again just halfway through the first season after.

   Of course, that wouldn't even begin to solve their problems, because they
have a patchwork roster that isn't equipped to compete for a championship.

   When they traded O'Neal to the Miami Heat they got a complementary Caron
Butler, a gimpy Brian Grant and an inconsistent Lamar Odom, who needs to have
the offense run through him to flourish.

   They counted on an aging Vlade Divac to be their presence in the middle. He
couldn't even make it to the start of training camp before he got hurt.

   And they ignored the recent injury history of Bryant in making the team so
dependent on him. Believe it or not, O'Neal played in more games than Bryant in
three of the last five seasons and is on track to do so again this year.

   The Lakers have been slowly adrift. If hiring Tomjanovich was all part of
some master plan to attract Yao Ming when he becomes a free agent in two years,
that plan's out the window too. Yao has said, "Rudy is like a father," but now
the Lakers can't include "come to papa" among their recruiting pitches.

   Tomjanovich isn't officially gone yet. Odds are that's because the Lakers
hadn't finalized the buyout terms for the rest of his five-year, $30-million
contract. One Laker staffer said the announcement would come today. Tomjanovich
has to go now, just because it got this far. He can't command the locker room if
the players think he'll bail on them at any minute.

   It's time for the next coach. Even if it's the ex-coach.

   J.A. Adande can be reached at j.a.adande@latimes.com. To read previous
columns by Adande, go to latimes.com/Adande.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AN ENCORE?: Lakers would generate buzz if they were to rehire
Phil Jackson.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Wally Skalij Los Angeles Times PHOTO: REVOLVING
DOOR: Laker assistant coach Frank Hamblen, filling in for Coach Rudy
Tomjanovich, is fired up as he goes out to lead the team against the Portland
Trail Blazers.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Gina Ferazzi Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              106 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
NIH Seeks 'Higher Standard';
Banning staff deals with drug firms will help set an ethical example, the agency
director says.

BYLINE: David Willman, Times Staff Writer

DATELINE:  BETHESDA, Md.

BODY:

   The director of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni,
said that rules he announced Tuesday banning all staff scientists from taking
drug-company fees would help the federal research agency set the highest ethical
example.

   Referring to the pervasive intermingling of pharmaceutical marketing with
medical research nationally, Zerhouni said the time had come for the NIH to
provide "at least one source of public health information in the country that
can be completely trusted."

   "We believe that we need to hold NIH and ourselves as scientists at NIH to a
higher standard, because we do have national public health responsibilities," he
told a news conference at the agency's headquarters.

   The new restrictions, agreed on by Zerhouni and senior officials with the
Office of Government Ethics and the Department of Health and Human Services, are
intended to be permanent, he said.

   According to a summary issued by the NIH, employees also would be banned from
moonlighting for research institutions receiving NIH funds, for health insurers
and for "related trade, professional or similar associations." And virtually all
staff scientists at the NIH would be prohibited from holding investments in
biomedical companies.

   Zerhouni, 53, said that his endorsement of the restrictions marked a
turnabout.

   For the better part of the last year, the NIH director had fought against
imposing an across-the-board ban on industry consulting, saying that the paid
arrangements generally helped translate scientific discoveries into medical
remedies for patients.

   "I've changed my mind," Zerhouni said.

   "I'm not confident that we can continue to pretend that we have a system that
works," he told reporters. "We will never go back to the old rules -- that's for
sure."

   Last year, Zerhouni supported banning only the most senior officials at NIH,
including the directors of the agency's research centers and institutes, from
moonlighting for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The vast majority
of the NIH's more than 5,000 staff scientists should be allowed to work for the
companies, Zerhouni had said, because those employees did not have the power to
dispense research grants.

   In explaining his change of position, Zerhouni pointed to evidence brought to
his attention over the last 14 months. He cited reports published in December
2003 by the Los Angeles Times as raising "real concerns" that prompted him last
year to appoint an advisory committee focused on conflict-of-interest issues.

   The 2003 reports, along with articles published by The Times last year,
raised questions about NIH scientists' impartiality in overseeing clinical
trials and in making recommendations to doctors for treating patients. The
articles were cited by congressional leaders in their requests to Zerhouni a
year ago for documentation of the drug industry payments to NIH scientists.
Those and other records reviewed recently by The Times identified at least 530
NIH scientists who accepted fees, stock or stock options from biomedical
companies from 1999 through 2003.

   The scientists typically were required by the companies to sign
confidentiality agreements as a condition of their outside employment,
inhibiting their freedom to discuss related scientific matters with colleagues
at the NIH. The compensation paid to the agency scientists totaled in the
millions of dollars.

   Zerhouni's support for the new restrictions drew bipartisan praise Tuesday.

   "I want to commend Dr. Elias Zerhouni for taking a step that is both
difficult and necessary," said Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, whose oversight and investigations subcommittee
conducted three hearings last year into conflicts of interest at the NIH.

   Barton added: "For the National Institutes of Health to do the complex work
of thwarting disease and saving lives requires near-absolute public confidence
in the people who conduct the research. If the notion that private gain is
supplanting public service as the guiding light for health research, NIH's value
to our nation will plummet."

   Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, senior Democrat on the Senate appropriations
subcommittee that oversees the NIH budget, said, "I welcome [NIH's] decision
today to ban consulting deals between all of its employees and pharmaceutical
and biotech companies. NIH's well-deserved reputation as the world's premier
biomedical research agency was in danger of being tarnished as a result of
recent revelations that some NIH scientists had flouted the agency's guidelines
on preventing conflicts of interest."

   The new rules will not prevent all paid outside activities.

   According to Zerhouni aides, employees will still be allowed to teach courses
at universities, write general textbooks and perform reviews for scientific
journals. They will be allowed to work shifts at hospitals and to otherwise
practice medicine part time. Agency employees could also accept fees for
speaking to physicians at medical-education events funded by biomedical
companies, if the money came in the form of an unrestricted grant and if the
subject to be discussed did not overlap with the scientist's area of expertise
at the NIH.

   Zerhouni and other senior administrators declined Tuesday to discuss the
status of internal conflict-of-interest investigations. The director says that
"the cases concern a few dozen scientists."

   Zerhouni told reporters that though the crackdown on industry payments had
drawn mixed reactions from staff scientists, he had had no recent difficulties
recruiting talented personnel.

   Without referring to his predecessor by name, Zerhouni also suggested that
the seeds of the NIH's difficulties with conflict of interest were sown in 1995,
when then-agency Director Harold E. Varmus quietly lifted a range of
restrictions on moonlighting in the industry. Varmus allowed all NIH employees
-- including institute and center directors -- to enter into deals with drug
companies and to accept stock and stock options as compensation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TURNABOUT: NIH chief Elias A. Zerhouni had once opposed a
sweeping ban.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Tony Gutierrez Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              107 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: California;
State Bars Sales of Investments by Couple;
Regulators issue an order against two suspected of scamming black church
members.

BYLINE: E. Scott Reckard, Times Staff Writer

BODY:

   California regulators said Tuesday that they had barred sales of investments
by a couple who allegedly had defrauded fellow members of African American
churches since at least November 2000.

   The state Department of Corporations issued a cease-and-desist order dated
Monday against Phoebus Vincent Smith and his estranged wife, Saundra.

   John Williamson, the Smiths' Simi Valley attorney, and Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Det. David Lingscheit, who is conducting a criminal investigation into
the alleged scam, couldn't be reached for comment.

   California Corporations Commissioner William P. Wood accused the Smiths of
selling unregistered securities and of misleading investors about their scheme.

   The Smiths claimed to be able to double investors' money in two or three
months in deals for Viagra and other drugs, precious metals, auto loans and real
estate, but in reality were using money from new investors to pay old ones, Wood
said.

   The order said the Smiths, calling themselves the Cash Flow Creators,
targeted fellow members of the First Lutheran Church in Carson beginning in late
2000.

   Operating in the high desert as Antelope Valley Banking System and Mr. V & S
Investments, they allegedly raised money from sources such as the Christian
Fellowship Church in Lancaster, and, through agents, from Ventura County day
laborers and Filipino Americans in Orange County and Sacramento.

   Smith, who has filed to divorce his wife, "is currently operating his scheme"
in Ridgecrest under the names Rich Men's Club, Women of Power, and Prosperity
Enterprises One, the Department of Corporations alleged.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              108 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: FOOD; Features Desk; Part F; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: MATTERS OF TASTE;
Darkly compelling;
For this journalist, chocolate is every bit as satisfying a subject as war and
peace. In fact, it includes them.

BYLINE: David Shaw, Times Staff Writer

BODY:

   As a longtime Paris-based "special correspondent" for the Associated Press,
Mort Rosenblum visited almost 200 countries on seven continents and covered
virtually every important story of the last 40 years -- war and peace, genocide
and terrorism, floods and famines, coups and coronations, elections, earthquakes
and epidemics, the rise of the Asian economy, the fall of communism. You name
it, he was there, pen and notebook in hand.

   But Rosenblum, who's also written 11 books, on topics as varied as olives,
journalism and French nationalism, says he's never taken on an assignment as
challenging or as satisfying as his newly published "Chocolate: A Bittersweet
Saga of Dark and Light."

   The book is a fascinating account of the history and mystery of chocolate.
Rosenblum spent four years traveling the world, from Mexico to the Ivory Coast,
exploring the origins of chocolate, its economics, its appeal, its widely
varying quality and its effect on the mind, the heart, the waistline and the
libido. He writes about poverty, slavery, exploitation and corruption, and he
weaves through his globe-hopping narrative several explanations of different
chocolate-making processes, as well as mini-profiles of a number of engaging
characters in this $60-billion, often cutthroat industry.

   I've known Rosenblum casually for more than 25 years, since we met at a
dinner party in Paris when he was editor of the International Herald Tribune. We
've eaten together periodically since then when he's come here and when I've
gone to France, where -- when he's not traveling -- he divides his time between
a five-acre spread in Provence and a houseboat moored on the Seine, in the heart
of Paris.

   Last week we had dinner at Spago -- to catch up, to talk about his chocolate
book and to sample the chocolate desserts of Sherry Yard (not necessarily in
that order of importance).

   The first thing he tells me as we sit down is that he doesn't work for AP
anymore.

   "They decided in November that they no longer need someone based in Paris to
run around the world and dig long and deeply into big stories," he says.

   But he doesn't want to dwell on the subject. "I'm having too much fun with
the chocolate book and I've got ideas for two more books and I'm hungry," he
says, "so let's eat."

   Eat we do. Chef Lee Hefter sends out course after course, and when course 15
arrives -- Kurobuta pork -- Rosenblum takes one look at the reddish-brown streak
next to the pork, grins broadly, nudges me and says, "Mole -- again. Finally."

   Rosenblum loves mole and devotes much of one chapter in his book to his quest
for the perfect mole in Oaxaca. On his last visit, he had specifically requested
that we go to a Oaxacan restaurant so he could order mole. We went to
Guelaguetza in Koreatown, and he was a very happy fella.

   But this is Spago, not Guelaguetza, and the small, dark stream alongside the
pork is not mole but blood sausage puree.

   He loves it anyway.

   *

   Saving room for sweets

   Still, when more sharp knives appear, signaling the impending arrival of
course 16, we decide to wave the white flag.

   Venison is next, we're told.

   "Not for us," we say politely. "Remember -- we have to save room for dessert.
"

   "You will have cheese, though, right?" our waiter more pleads than asks.

   We agree, and while waiting for it, I ask Rosenblum if -- having written
about chocolate and olives and, in his 2000 book "A Goose in Toulouse," French
food in general -- he might consider a book on cheese.

   "No," he says immediately. "There's no passion in cheese."

   I start to disagree, but he waves me to silence.

   "There aren't really any cheese wars," he says. "Nothing like Hershey's
versus Mars or Amedei versus Valrhona. I like blood in my books."

   Rosenblum's account of the "candy war" between Mars and Hershey takes up
several pages in Chapter 5, in which he says, "Hershey's chocolate tastes like
sugared wax, the end result of monster mass production with all corners cut."

   Rosenblum isn't any more favorably disposed toward Mars' chocolate, so I
ultimately found his account of the Hershey-Mars battle somewhat less riveting
than his report on the struggle between French-based Valrhona, which he says
makes the best chocolate in the world, and the Italian firm of Amedei.

   As he tells the tale, the people who run Valrhona are appallingly arrogant
and secretive.

   "Valrhona is the living exception to 'Rosenblum's First Law of Chocolate,' "
he says. That law is, "The more someone refuses to talk about what he does, the
more he is likely to be involved in a lousy product. Applying the converse of
this law, I resolved to look for people who were happy to talk about what they
did."

   But because Rosenblum -- and many he interviewed in the chocolate industry --
think Valrhona is the best, he felt compelled to research the company
thoroughly, visit its factory and talk to everyone he could who knew anything
about it.

   In the course of that research, he came across "an affable Italian
perfectionist named Alessio Tessieri," who wanted to use Valrhona chocolate in a
business that he and his sister and mother ran selling ingredients to bakers in
Italy.

   When the family visited the Valrhona factory, they were summarily dismissed.

   "They told us that they did not think Italians were ready for their products,
and they were not sure we could do them justice," Alessio's sister Cecilia later
told Rosenblum. "Right then and there, it was war."

   The family pooled all its resources and started Amedei.

   Alessio traveled the world looking for the best cacao beans, knowing that the
best beans make the best chocolate. "And he knew how to hit Valrhona where it
hurt," Rosenblum says. "He zeroed in on the tiny, centuries-old Venezuelan
coastal village of Chuao.... Among the cacao cognoscenti, Chuao was referred to
with the same reverence that wine lovers lavish on Romanee-Conti."

   For many years, the small growers of Chuao had sold most of their beans to
Valrhona. Then, in 2002 -- 10 years after his family was slighted by Valrhona --
Alessio persuaded them to sell their beans to him instead.

   How did he do it? Each side tells a different story, and it's such tales that
make Rosenblum's book a delightful read.

   At one point in our Spago dinner, he tells me, "I originally thought of the
book as 'Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory,' and I wound up in 'War and
Peace.' "

   As we move closer to dessert, mixing talk of chocolate with talk of
journalism, politics, wives and wars, I ask Rosenblum about his various
chocolate preferences.

   Since he has told me Valrhona makes the best chocolate, I ask who takes that
chocolate and turns out the best -- whatever you call them -- bonbons or filled
chocolates or whatever.

   He reaches into the backpack he's carrying and hands me a 3-inch-by-3-inch
gray box bearing the words "Jacques Genin" and "Paris."

   "If I could take only one chocolate to a desert island, it would be his," he
says. "He doesn't even have a real shop, just a small lab on the Rue
Saint-Charles." He pauses. "Of course, he uses Valrhona."

   I ask if I could buy Genin's chocolate the next time I go to Paris, and
Rosenblum snorts. "If you can find him and if he's in a good mood."

   Then he hands me a second, even smaller gray box, wrapped with a black ribbon
that says "Recchiuti Confections."

   "He's in Burlingame, near SFO [the San Francisco Airport], and he makes the
best chocolates in the United States. Most American chocolates are too sweet....
The rule in the U.S. with almost everything is 'If a little is good, more is
better,' so they use too much sugar. The trick to making good chocolate is to be
subtle. That's why the French, who are relative latecomers to chocolate-making,
now make the best chocolate in the world. They understand the secret of subtle
blending."

   Michael Recchiuti gets his chocolate from the Caribbean and Central and South
America. "His best product is made with chocolate from Sur del Lago, below Lake
Maracaibo in Venezuela, where the best chocolate comes from," Rosenblum says.

   Two minutes later, the always ebullient Sherry Yard bounces up to our table.
She spots the Recchiuti box immediately and begins expostulating on how great
his chocolates are. For the next 20 minutes, she and Rosenblum engage in
high-spirited, high-level chocolate talk, nodding and yelping and waving their
arms and tossing back and forth names like "Manjari," "Guittard," "criollo,"
"Guanaja" and "Jivara." To my unschooled ear, they might as well be speaking
Urdu. But their shared passion for great chocolate and their agreement on who
(and what) makes great chocolate is clear, even to me.

   Then it's showtime. Yard sends out five chocolate desserts, each more
delicious and more beautiful than the next.

   We have profiteroles; milk chocolate caramel truffles; a small, 24-layer
chocolate torte; a chocolate-banana souffle; and what Yard calls a "Manhattan,"
in which, she says, "paper-thin Guittard, Etienne Collection, Lever du Soleil,
61% chocolate is molded into a narrow chocolate tower. The same chocolate,
studded with deep, dark chocolate genoise, is used to create mousse that fills
the tower, which is then topped with pistachio gelato."

   It's one of the richest, most flavorful desserts I've ever had.

   "Mort de chocolat," I say -- cleverly, I think -- to Mort Rosenblum. But he
appears not to hear me. He's too busy eating and muttering, "This is good. This
is great. This is amazing. She's really good."

   In time, sated, I pay the check and reach for my small boxes of Genin and
Recchiuti chocolates. Rosenblum puts a cautionary hand on my arm.

   "Don't eat them now," he says. "You won't be able to appreciate them. Do it
first thing in the morning, with a clean palate and an empty stomach -- before
coffee."

   Bien sur, mon ami.

   I don't think I've ever had a better breakfast.

   *

   David Shaw can be reached at david.shaw@latimes.com. To read previous
"Matters of Taste" columns, please go to latimes.com/shaw-taste.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOUGH ASSIGNMENT: Mort Rosenblum faces down an assortment of
chocolate desserts at Spago Beverly Hills.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Ann Johansson

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              109 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALENDAR; Calendar Desk; Part E; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Big fish in a small jury pool;
Yes, all the good people of Santa Maria know about Michael Jackson. Everyone
knows when the circus is in town.

BYLINE: Martin Miller, Times Staff Writer

DATELINE:  SANTA MARIA

BODY:

   If any place has a shot at producing the uber-Michael Jackson juror, capable
of ignoring what the Japanese, Germans and English can't seem to get enough of,
it's this quiet Central Coast town. Its demographics would seem to hold out some
hope of yielding that magical somebody who has escaped the pop culture ether and
hasn't heard about the moonwalk, the glove, the plastic surgery gone wild, the
baby over the balcony, the child molestation charges, the King of Pop himself.

   Despite showing halting signs of wanting to be a bona fide city -- lots of
housing construction and familiar franchises like Home Depot and Applebee's --
this enclave of roughly 82,000 just 12 miles from the Pacific Ocean is still a
small town. It's a place where mom-and-pop stores still thrive along its
streets, where farmers fill up 20 million trays of strawberries annually and
where the local newspaper this week ran the headline "Man Sought in Beer-Bottle
Attack."

   And because of the town's mild climate, relative affordability and easygoing
ways, it's a favorite choice for retirees. Almost a fifth of the town is 55 or
older, and 1 in 10 adults is a retired veteran, thanks in part to nearby
Vandenberg Air Force Base, the area's largest employer. All in all, not the kind
of folks you picture singing "Beat It" to themselves at a stoplight.

   But can anyone escape the Michael Jackson Show?

   "I know that some people try to cut themselves off, but you can't," said
Diane Bentley, a volunteer at the town's Elwin E. Mussell Senior Citizens
Center. "If you see a newspaper, magazine or television, there [Jackson] is. He
's famous all over the world."

   The daily carnival at the town's county courthouse underscores that
observation. Critics, fans, Jackson impersonators, cultural rubberneckers and
media from all around the globe stand vigil behind the court's fence barricades,
waiting for a fleeting glimpse of the King of Pop. Those in the crowd scoffed at
the notion that everyone in Santa Maria didn't at least have a seat inside the
Jackson fame bubble.

   "You'd have to be brain-dead," said Lee Emmett, 62, who drove in from nearby
Oceania with her digital camera. "My mother is 90 years old and she lives in
East Bend, Ore., and she's heard of Michael Jackson."

   The omnipresence of Jackson's fame should be no surprise, according to Sean
Vezina, a Michael Jackson impersonator who drove from Hollywood to "be here for
the most important day of Michael's life" and who seemed insulted at the idea
that someone wouldn't know the pop star. The diminutive 24-year-old, wearing
trademark black buckled trousers, black fedora hat and mirror shades, hailed his
idol's singing, dancing and humanitarianism as the unstoppable forces behind the
fame.

   "How could anyone not know who Michael Jackson is?" said Vezina, who
estimated he'd been interviewed more than 100 times Monday by the media. "That's
crazy."

   Not far from the courthouse, at the Boy's Restaurant, the biscuits and gravy
were the breakfast special, the radio was playing Neil Diamond and Buddy Holly,
and the talk was about their strange neighbor from the Neverland ranch.

   "People are buzzing about Jackson, yeah, but they like to joke about it more,
" said Lisa, a waitress at the '50s style coffee shop who didn't want to give
her last name. "People can't believe he comes with his own cheering section."

   He's a great dancer, second only to Fred Astaire, added Arline Lawrence, a
waitress at the Boy's for 28 years. Lawrence, who was born and raised in Santa
Maria, lamented that Jackson's high-profile legal case is hurting the town's
image.

   "It's a bad way to get our name on the maps," she said. "I'm tired of hearing
about it and talking about it, really."

   Any customer not heard of Jackson?

   "My daughter never has," said Lisa. "She's 21 months old."

   "That's going to be hard to find someone like that in Santa Maria," added
Arline. "Good luck."

   Not a fan, but ...

   At the Farm Supply Co., a friendly corner store where you can purchase an
irrigation system or just some fly repellent ointment for your horses,
old-timers and young alike certainly knew of Jackson, though few approved of his
musical talents or the circus he'd brought to town.

   "I'm conservative," said Steve Heller, 57, the store's sales manager. "I like
country western."

   Still, he couldn't see how someone in town, caught up in traffic snarls, all
the visitors and constant media coverage, could dodge the Jackson case. "Whether
you want it or not, it's in your face. It's on the front page of the newspapers
every day, it's always on television. You can't get away from it."

   It even almost hit home. Farm Supply salesman Greg Flores was called to jury
duty, and for a while it appeared he would have to report with potential Jackson
jurors. Late last week he found out he wouldn't be needed.

   "He already had the book written," joked fellow salesman Andy McFarland, 44.

   "Man, I had that money spent already," replied the 38-year-old Flores to a
roar of laughter in the store.

   Later, Flores confided he liked Jackson and still owned several of his
albums. But if he had been called, prosecutors would have probably rooted that
out and he would have been kicked off anyway.

   "I would have been a good juror," he added. "It would have been cool to be on
that jury. I mean, who wouldn't want to do that?"

   After malls, fast-food restaurants and a local college proved fertile ground
for Jackson's notoriety, there was really only one last place to go for answers.
It was time to consult the wisest among us -- the seniors.

   At the Mussell Senior Center, within a mile of the courthouse, it became
quickly apparent that everybody there not only had heard of Jackson, but
detested him and the media swarming around him to boot. These members of the
Greatest Generation, who survived the Great Depression and won World War II,
were again being tested in their golden years.

   "Oh, I'm so tired of hearing about him," said one elderly woman, who wouldn't
give her name, while enjoying a morning needlepoint class at the center. "I
swear if the president came to town, he wouldn't have as much police with him."

   "Why do you people keep writing about him?" asked another in the all-woman
needlepoint class. "Enough."

   "I remember him from the Jackson Five," said another. "He was so cute. Then
he went the other way. He wanted to be white."

   Down the hall, the senior guys shooting pool felt much the same way. They
fondly recalled the Big Band sound, Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra. As for
Jackson?

   "I don't talk about it, I don't care about it," said Jack, 77, who wouldn't
supply his last name. "I don't like his music. I think he's an idiot."

   Maybe there's no finding anyone in Santa Maria or anywhere for that matter
who hasn't heard of Michael Jackson.

   In today's pop culture-saturated society, that'd be like finding Neverland.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LONDONER CALLING: Navi, 32, a Jackson impersonator for 15 years,
came to bask in the light shining on Santa Maria.   PHOTO: LOCALS LUNCHING:
Carrie Moog serves Sonia Vea, left, and Catalina Herrera at Boy's, where Jackson
is the buzz and butt of jokes.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Photographs by Mel Melcon Los
Angeles Times PHOTO: HOME, AWAY: Sean Vezina of Hollywood, left, and Ashleigh
Woodard of Santa Maria.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Mel Melcon Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              110 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALENDAR; Calendar Desk; Part E; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Publicist puts a new spin on life

BYLINE: Kim Masters, Special to The Times

BODY:

   Publicist Bumble Ward says there was no blowup with a client -- no degrading
demand or invective-filled altercation -- that catalyzed her decision to do what
so many in Hollywood say they wish they could do: quit the business.

   Instead, there was a quarrel with her husband over the holidays. "He said, 'I
don't want to fight with you. This is not a dress rehearsal,' " says Ward, one
of Hollywood's more popular personal publicists. Something about those words
resonated with her and she decided it was time to act on a long-held desire to
pursue different work. "Even if I [stink], I just want to try it before my mind
is entirely addled," she says.

   What she wants to try before the mind goes is writing novels. For this she
will give up an enviable roster of big-name directors, including Quentin
Tarantino, Sofia Coppola, the Farrelly brothers ("There's Something About Mary")
and "Finding Neverland's" Marc Forster.

   In a phone conversation before leaving town for a short vacation Ward says
she is reluctant to discuss her decision to leave. "There isn't any big reason
other than -- I'm done," she says.

   Ward's decision has stirred some envy in Hollywood, where many understand the
corrosive effect of working for those who can be demanding and abusive. "I
admire it," says DreamWorks marketing executive Terry Press. "To be able to walk
away and say this is what I want to do -- how many people do that?"

   To those who had read a 2002 profile of Ward in the New Yorker, Ward's
decision did not come as a total surprise. Ward famously told the magazine of
her dismay at watching powerful publicist Pat Kingsley standing at attention (in
that dreaded spot) on the red carpet. "Some of my moments of clarity have come
from seeing Pat Kingsley -- this very strong, proud, older woman -- waiting and
waiting and then opening the limo door," Ward said then. "The idea of being
caught in the swirly vortex of publicity until I'm Pat's age is so horrific."

   At that point, the then-39-year-old says, she was already working on a novel,
adding that she did not want to be doing publicity at 40. She is now 41.

   The Oscar ceremony Feb. 27 will mark her official departure from the biz,
though she will consult with Coppola on her upcoming production of
"Marie-Antoinette," starring Kirsten Dunst.

   Sounding just wistful enough to be diplomatic, Ward says it was "a bloody
hard decision" to leave. But she was clear that she's had enough in a business
that sometimes involves dealing with unpleasantness. "I had the best clients in
the business and still, it's utterly soul-destroying," she says. "How many
publicists do you know that you think are great people? I can count them on one
hand. It's a weird business where you are absolutely the bottom of the barrel
and you get humiliated.... No disrespect to anybody but standing on a red carpet
waiting for a client is no fun."

   Raised in the English village of Aldbury, Ward worked for a number of
publicity firms before starting her own, out of her garage, in 1994. Tarantino
once declared that Ward "helped make me one of the most famous directors in the
world."

   Indeed, Ward and Tarantino helped each other. "She broke some serious ground
with Quentin," says Miramax publicity chief Amanda Lundberg. "You noticed her
work because you didn't see directors being handled that way.... She got him
such mainstream press that people knew the name."

   Having helped to create Tarantino's fame, as the New Yorker piece pointed
out, Ward then had to "soften stories about his weight gain, his breakup with
Mira Sorvino, the terrible reviews he got as an actor, and his penchant for bar
fights."

   Anyone who read that story knew Ward was suffering from battle fatigue. It
described what most publicists take to their graves: trying times with abusive,
narcissistic clients who dumped on her for such infractions as failing to get
them a coveted invitation to an industry party or paying attention to her
children -- sitting in the back seat of her car as she drove and talked on her
cellphone with them.

   Early in January, Bumble Ward & Associates moved into new offices. Various
problems with that space led her to work at home and she found that she liked
being there. "There's no more amazing feeling than being home when your kids
come home," she says. (Her children are 14 and 9.)

   Although some of her erstwhile competitors have told her she's crazy, others
have a different response. "People are saying, 'I'm really jealous, but well
done -- and by the way, can I have your clients?' "

   Some competitors as well as several studio executives who are not trolling
for Ward's clients have praised her. Among them is Kingsley. "She did
extraordinary work for the people she represented," Kingsley says. "If she wants
to go out and go out on top, she's actually doing it."

   (Asked how she feels about being the specter that helped drive Ward out of
the business, Kingsley laughs. "I still find it fun," says Kingsley, 72. "You
don't literally open limo doors.")

   "She's supremely intelligent, which is a hard-to-find commodity in this
business sometimes," says Stephanie Klust, senior vice president of publicity at
Universal Pictures. "And she works with people that she cares about, which I
think makes a big difference."

   Others who have struggled to cope with demanding talent expressed sympathy.
"It's like being a mommy whose children never grow up," one says.

   Ward declines to look back on her experiences, saying, "I'm almost not far
enough away from it to reminisce." Whether those experiences become fodder for a
roman a clef remains -- perhaps anxiously, by some -- to be seen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEXT UP: Bumble Ward wants to write.  PHOTOGRAPHER: A.
Rentmeester

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              111 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2005 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Sports Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Tomjanovich May Quit; Jackson 'Mulling' Return

BYLINE: Mike Bresnahan and Tim Brown, Times Staff Writers

BODY:

   A reeling Laker franchise may have suffered its latest blow Tuesday, when
Coach Rudy Tomjanovich informed team officials he might resign because of health
concerns and the pressures that accompany his position -- a move that sources
said could prompt the team to ask former coach Phil Jackson to return.

   Tomjanovich, hired as Laker coach in July, is suffering from symptoms of
exhaustion and fatigue, and he has missed the last two games because of a
stomach virus, according to Laker spokesman John Black.

   Tomjanovich, 56, is in the first year of a five-year, $30-million contract.
The deal includes a clause that allows the Lakers to terminate it at the end of
a season if Tomjanovich's performance is affected by health issues. He was
diagnosed with bladder cancer in March 2003, a condition from which he has
recovered fully.

   Laker owner Jerry Buss, General Manager Mitch Kupchak and sidelined star Kobe
Bryant met privately for half an hour during the first quarter of Tuesday's game
against the Portland Trail Blazers -- "just chatting," Kupchak said afterward.

   But Laker sources said Bryant was asked in the meeting what he would think if
Jackson were approached about returning, and Bryant said he would agree to it.

   Jackson is vacationing in Australia with Luc Longley, who played center for
him with the Chicago Bulls. When asked in an e-mail about any possible scenario
in which he would return to the Lakers, Jackson said: "[I am] mulling that over
in my mind. Luc and I are going for a swim this p.m. [in the] Indian Ocean."

   Bryant sat on the Laker bench after the meeting and appeared to be in a
playful mood, smiling and talking with teammates. Bryant has been sidelined
since Jan. 13 and has sat out nine games because of a severely sprained ankle.

   The Lakers are 24-19 this season, including wins the last two games in which
assistant Frank Hamblen has filled in for Tomjanovich. The Lakers defeated
Portland on Tuesday, 92-79.

   The sources said Buss told Bryant that Jackson's hiring would reduce the
pressure on the Laker star since the departure of Jackson and center Shaquille O
'Neal, who was traded in July to the Miami Heat.

   The sources also said that Buss contemplated telling Bryant that the one
person most irritated by the rehiring of Jackson would be O'Neal, who has
referred to the Laker franchise only in acrimonious terms since being traded.

   Jackson and the Lakers abruptly parted ways in June, with Buss suggesting
that Jackson's "triangle" offense had run its course. Jackson guided the Lakers
to three championships in five seasons. He won six championships in the 1990s as
coach of the Chicago Bulls. Laker officials reportedly were in contact Tuesday
with Jackson in Australia.

   Jackson portrayed Bryant as an uncoachable enigma in his tell-all diary that
hit bookstores in October. At the same time, Jackson said he wished the best for
Bryant and sympathized with the constant scrutiny the young star had faced.

   Bryant and Tomjanovich have had a generally cordial relationship. Tomjanovich
has complimented Bryant numerous times throughout the season, which passed the
halfway point last week. But there have also been disagreements.

   Bryant and Tomjanovich met early last month to discuss the offense. Bryant
recommended installing another offense, and Tomjanovich recommended they return
to the triangle.

   Bryant said Tuesday he was stunned to hear of Tomjanovich's condition, but he
declined to discuss Jackson, saying, "I just want to play."

   "He thought [Tomjanovich] was a great coach and a great person," said Bryant
's agent, Rob Pelinka. "They've had nothing but a positive experience mutually."

   Privately, some players have questioned Tomjanovich's long-term plans. The
offense was expected to be up-tempo, but it has evolved into more of a
long-range shooting experiment, with several team records set or nearly set for
three-point shots.

   The Lakers have won nine championships since moving to Los Angeles in 1960,
but the franchise seemed to spin out of control last season, when Bryant faced a
rape charge, the team lost to Detroit in the NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded, and
Jackson's contract was not renewed.

   Now, a Tomjanovich chapter may be added to that.

   "He's had some health issues," Black said. "This had nothing to do with
cancer. It's not back. There are other health issues. He is contemplating his
options on whether to continue coaching or not. When he does make a decision on
that, it will be announced at the appropriate time."

   Friends of Tomjanovich were stunned by the developments.

   "This has blindsided me," Rocket General Manager Carroll Dawson said. "I've
been trying to call him for the last 24 hours and haven't gotten through. Until
I talk to Rudy, I don't know what to say except that I am shocked."

   Tomjanovich, who spent his entire 11-year playing career with the Rockets,
paid his dues for almost nine years as a Rocket assistant coach before getting a
shot as the Rockets' head coach in February 1992, more than halfway through the
1991-92 season.

   In his first full season, Tomjanovich was coach of the year in 1993. He
guided the Rockets to NBA titles in 1994 and 1995.

   In December 1977, Tomjanovich almost died after getting punched in the face
by Laker forward Kermit Washington during an on-court fracas at the Forum.
Tomjanovich, a four-time All-Star at the time, suffered compound facial
fractures, and his playing career was never the same. He retired in 1981.

   Tomjanovich was diagnosed with superficial bladder cancer in March 2003,
ending his string of 2,601 games with the Rockets as player, assistant coach and
head coach. He returned that fall as a personnel consultant.

   *

   Rudy Tomjanovich file

   * Full name is Rudolph Tomjanovich, born Nov. 24, 1948, in Hamtramck, Mich.

   * Averaged 25.1 points and 14.4 rebounds at the University of Michigan,
including averages of 30.1 and 15.7 to earn All-America honors as a senior in
1970.

   * Averaged 17.4 points and 8.1 rebounds in an 11-season NBA career with San
Diego and Houston.

   * Came back from a life-threatening injury when punched by the Lakers' Kermit
Washington on Dec. 9, 1977, to average 19 points the following season.

   * Compiled a 503-397 record in 12 seasons coaching Houston, with Midwest
Division titles in 1993 and 1994.

   * Coached Houston to a 4-3 victory over New York in the 1994 NBA Finals and a
four-game sweep of Orlando in the 1995 Finals.

   * Coached the United States to a third-place finish in the 1998 World
Championships, and a gold medal in the 2000 Olympics.

   Los Angeles Times

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KEY MATCHUP: Rudy Tomjanovich and Kobe Bryant have gotten along
reasonably well, but the Laker star reportedly signed off on Phil Jackson's
possible return to his old job.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Alexander Gallardo Los Angeles
Times PHOTO: NOT FEELING WELL: Rudy Tomjanovich is in the first year of a
five-year, $30-million contract. He was diagnosed in 2003 with bladder cancer,
but a Laker spokesman says his latest health concerns are not related to that
illness.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Gina Ferazzi Los Angeles Times PHOTO: ABSENT: Laker
Coach Rudy Tomjanovich has missed the team's last two games because of a stomach
virus.  PHOTOGRAPHER: LORI SHEPLER Los Angeles Times PHOTO: PREDECESSOR ... AND
SUCCESSOR? Phil Jackson and the Lakers abruptly parted ways in June, after he
had led the team to three NBA championships in five seasons.  PHOTOGRAPHER:
Wally Skalij Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              112 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                        Copyright 2005 Manila Standard
                                Manila Standard

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: PLARIDEL IN THE MAKING

BYLINE: Jullie Yap Daza

BODY:



   It all started as a move to "save" the National Press Club. But when it didn
't look like NPC wanted to be saved, not even from itself, the next best thing
was to form a small press club, one spelled not in capital letters but lower
case.

   The blame must be heaped principally on the shoulders of Max Soliven, Adrian
Cristobal, Roly Estabillo and Neal Cruz who in their younger days (I guess) must
pretty much have enjoyed socializing, drinking and swapping gossip at the NPC
bar and restaurant. I can only guess because I never actually saw them there; I
was prohibited from going there by an overprotective colleague who allowed me to
visit but once a year, and only to cast my vote in the circus-like, fiesta-like
elections.

   That circus/fiesta feeling is gone now, gone like the snows of yesteryears.
There are those who will say Martial Law ruined the club, as there are more of
those who will tell you it was a case of suicide. The club killed itself. Wrong
people. Wrong agenda. Wrong philosophy. Wrong mistakes. Imagine a piano
vanishing from the third floor and making its disappearing act via a winding
staircase or a squeaky elevator that could fit five persons max? Mostly it was
the wrong people doing the wrong things and getting plenty of support, in the
name of press freedom, from the right people who had the power to condone debts,
erase bills, forgive and forget infractions, contract provisions, etc.

   In spite of those life-saving measures, things did not get better.
Indecently, membership grew days before every annual (which became bi-annual)
elections, but the perennial optimists Max, Adrian, Roly and Neal, soon turned
pessimists when they realized they could not overcome the numbers.

   Notwithstanding, at one point two years ago they even toyed with the idea of
forming a party that would allow them to go into the fray and hope that their
lineup would win every seat in the board of directors (who would then choose the
officers). Not only the numbers: One look at the strange names appearing in the
membership rolls was enough to cause their retreat. The owners of those strange
names would never vote for name journalists such as Max, Adrian, Roly and Neal.

   After a few meetings, mostly over lunch, and especially after Chitang Nakpil
gave her blessing to the use of the name Plaridel, as in Samahang Plaridel, nom
de guerre of the patriot Marcelo H. del Pilar, the handwriting was on the wall.
This would be the press club of journalists, for journalists, by journalists.

   ***

   Last week, the small press club aka Samahang Plaridel inaugurated its
clubhouse in a building on T.M. Kalaw fittingly situated across the National
Library on Rizal Park. Balloons, a calf being roasted on the street, VIPs moving
in and out and up and down the three flights of stairs were all I could see. I
saw no piano yet in the piano bar on the ground floor, but I did see Julie Lluch
's life-size sculptures up on the third floor, where they squatted, crouched,
sat under Malang's paintings. In the holding room beside the bar, Willie Nep
waited for his cue to go out and slay them with his impersonations (he was a
hair-raising facsimile of Erap when I peeped, and in the room with him was
another impersonator, Oya, looking very much like a certain Gloria M. Arroyo).

   ***

   Plaridel's next deadline, now that it has found itself a lounge (almost as
good as home) and an office, courtesy of a benefactor, is the installation of
the Plaridel statue near the Manila Zoo sometime in March. Sculpted by Julie
Lluch, the figure is worth every centavo of its P1.5 million price tag and shows
the hero Del Pilar in an orating pose, to add to Metro Manila's growing
consciousness that not every monumental statue depicts revolution or revolt with
a sword or some such deadly weapon.

   Manila Mayor Lights Atienza, as his gift to the club, has promised to extend
his Boardwalk to T.M. Kalaw and liven up what Roly Estabillo calls a dead spot
with the mayor's signature carnival lights. All those projects mean only one
thing: Samahang Plaridel had better come up with journalistic and other
activities pertinent and relevant to the profession.

   In the meantime, I'd be happy to see a piano in the piano bar: a piano that
will promise it won't get lost.

   Rod Reyes would be happy to finally finish the unenviable job of screening
more than 100 members-to-be, whose qualifications are a minimum five years
experience as fulltime journalist and endorsement by a Plaridel officer. More
importantly, the applicant will be entertained only if she or he has been
invited by a member. All it takes to be rejected is one member's "no."

   In a country where no one says no, that ought to be a singular achievement of
Plaridel. Now, if Max or Roly or Rod could tell us who's the victim of the first
no, wouldn't that be history in the making?

JOURNAL-CODE: WMST

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              113 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                        Copyright 2005 Manila Standard
                                Manila Standard

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: ERAP BALKS AT SIT-IN JUSTICES

BODY:



   Deposed President Joseph Estrada, through his counsel lawyer Rene Saguisag,
has asked the Supreme Court to fill in temporary or permanent vacancies in the
Sandiganbayan Special division.

   Sandiganbayan's Special Division handles the trial of Estrada for plunder, an
offense punishable by death.

   In a manifestation and motion dated Jan. 27, Saguisag noted the practice in
the Sandiganbayan to get another justice to substitute for an absent member.

   "It is most respectfully prayed that this honorable court set the appropriate
guidelines on how to deal with temporary or permanent vacancies in the special
division and that no walk-in warm body be allowed to join it in this lethal
injection case, and that any permanent replacement be chosen by raffle, with the
accused being notified of the same," Saguisag said.

   Saguisag said that for incidental matters, the practice of getting any of the
available justices to sit in the proceedings may be acceptable, but not when the
trial is already dealing with the important aspects of the case.

   "This we have not minded in the case of incidents, but we do when it comes to
trial on the merits," Saguisag said. "We cannot have anyone, as good as he or
she may be, come in cold, with no idea of what has transpired, sitting in when
the stakes are so high, the name, life, liberty and or property of an accused."

   The practice of allowing a sit-in justice, who would no longer participate in
the proceedings, "deprives the accused of the value of observing the demeanor
when judgment day comes, as it were."

   Saguisag noted that last in a resolution on Jan. 21, 2002, the SC has said
that the "designation of temporary alternate members (of the Special Division)
may be addressed later."

   He noted that until now, the SC has yet to come out with rules or guidelines
on that issue.

   Likewise, in a supplemental manifestation dated Jan. 31, Saguisag asked the
high court to revisit the issue of the frequency of the trial of the plunder
case before the Special Division.

   The Special Division conducts trial on Estrada's plunder case during Mondays
and Wednesdays.

   Saguisag noted that on Monday, he was notified by a fellow counsel of Estrada
that the hearing was canceled by the Special Division motu propio.

   He alleged that the justices are most likely affected by the pacing of the
trial, noting that in their own divisions some members of the Special Divisions
have failed to act on pending motions.

   "If the justices have been affected by the pace of the trial, all the more we
should revisit the issue of frequency of hearings," Saguisag said. Roy Pelovello

JOURNAL-CODE: WMST

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              114 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                            The Mercury (Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Justice battle takes its toll

BODY:

    DISGRACED former Queensland chief magistrate Di Fingleton was rushed to
hospital yesterday after breaking down in tears during a High Court hearing in
Canberra to clear her name.

   Ambulance paramedics were called to the High Court of Australia to treat a
highly distressed Ms Fingleton, who appeared to collapse while sitting in the
court's foyer after fleeing the courtroom.

   After receiving treatment, Ms Fingleton was transferred to the ambulance in
an undercover car park before being taken to Canberra Hospital for tests.

   Her solicitor, Matt Woods, said Ms Fingleton had been feeling ill and the
High Court appeal had been an overwhelming experience.

   "It's obviously a long day. She's taken it all in her stride, but she's just
being checked up on and I think she'll be fine tomorrow," he said.

   Ms Fingleton was convicted in June 2002 on a charge of retaliating against a
witness after threatening to demote co-ordinating magistrate Basil Gribbin.

   She was sentenced to a year in jail in 2002, but that was reduced to six
months on appeal.

   Mr Gribbin had written an affidavit to a judicial committee in support of
Brisbane magistrate Anne Thacker, who was fighting a decision by Ms Fingleton to
have her transferred.

   Ms Fingleton then wrote an email to Mr Gribbin asking him to show cause why
he should keep his job.

   The former chief magistrate broke down yesterday after Justice Michael McHugh
told Queensland Director of Public Prosecutions David Jackson he was presenting
a weak case as he defended the decision to convict Ms Fingleton.

   Justice McHugh questioned how any jury could find her guilty.

   "I really am puzzled by this case," he said.

   "I would have thought it was as clear as it could have been she lost his [Mr
Gribbin's] confidence and she wanted to let him go.

   "I don't see how anybody could come to the conclusion that wasn't the reason
she did it.

   "It strikes me as a fairly weak case."

   Justice McHugh also criticised the summing up of Ms Fingleton's case when it
was heard in Queensland.

   "The jury got no assistance. Is this a standard model of summing up in
Queensland?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              115 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                            The Mercury (Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis begin final tally of historic poll

SOURCE: AP

BODY:

    IRAQ reopened its borders yesterday and flights resumed from Baghdad
International Airport as authorities eased security restrictions imposed to
protect Sunday's elections.

    Election staff began the final vote tally at an election centre in Baghdad.

   Stringent security measures before the poll were credited with preventing
rebels from pulling off catastrophic attacks, although at least 44 people were
killed in about 100 attacks on polling stations.

   A website statement attributed to an al-Qaida affiliate yesterday dismissed
the elections as "theatrics" and promised to continue waging "holy war" against
the Americans and their Iraqi allies.

   About 200 election workers began the second -- and possibly final -- stage of
the count. Some results could be released as early as today.

   A Shi'ite clerical-backed alliance is expected to win the most seats in the
275-member National Assembly. But it is not expected to win the two-thirds
majority required to name a prime minister without support from other parties.

   Interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi's ticket was expected to finish second
among the 111 candidate lists.

   In a televised speech overnight, Allawi warned Iraqis that violence had not
ended just because the election had exceeded expectations.

   "The whole world is watching us. As we worked together [on Sunday] to finish
dictatorship, let us work together towards a bright future -- Sunnis and Shi
'ites, Muslims and Christians, Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen," he said.

   The leader of the main Shi'ite coalition pledged to build a government that
would include representatives of all of Iraq's people.

   "We are still insisting to form a partnership government including all
segments of the Iraqi people," Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim of the United Iraqi Alliance,
said.

   Interim President Ghazi al-Yawer said it would be "nonsense" to ask US and
other foreign troops to leave Iraq now but some of the 170,000 soldiers could be
leaving Iraq by the end of the year.

   Officials have not released turnout figures, although it appeared that many
Sunni Arabs stayed away from the polls, either out of fear of insurgent
reprisals or opposition to an election under US occupation.

   This has raised concern about further alienation among the Sunnis, who form
about 20 per cent of Iraq's 26 million people but whose role in the country's
educational, technical and intellectual elite is much greater.  *  US troops
yesterday shot dead four detainees during a riot at Camp Bucca, the main US
prison camp for guerilla suspects, near Umm Qasr in southern Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              116 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                            The Mercury (Australia)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BODY:

    STING IN THE TAIL

   If the Greens received more in donations than the Liberals who are the real
capitalists?

    Smug meat-eaters

   The highly-publicised cases of kitten torture show a level of depravity in
humans that revolts and bewilders most of us.

   The perpetrators of such acts must be made to pay severely.

   But as you sit at the dinner table shaking your head in disgust, wondering
about the mentality of individuals that commit such grotesque acts, you probably
think nothing of shoving processed chicken into your mouth or buying a burger
from a ghastly and destructive American fast food chain.

   Worse, you think about it but do nothing.

   I don't imply that every meat-eater is as guilty or reprehensible as the
animal torturers featuring in the news. They are not.

   But until we stop seeing the environment and creatures within it as nothing
but resources to be tapped and consumed, a certain level of irony remains. Cows,
pigs, sheep and chickens are capable of suffering to the same extent as kittens.

   If the taste of an animal is the only reason you tolerate intensive factory
farming -- which equates to industrial torture on a mass scale -- then wake up
to yourself. Eating meat also has nothing to do with being an Australian.

   Former footballers employed by big corporations to waffle on about lamb may
disagree.

   M. Kidd

   Launceston

   Live exports

   Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania notes with interest the concerns of the TFGA
over live animal exports, welcomes consultative discussions to be held regarding
the future of the live export trade and would like to take part in any
discussions.

   AACT condemns the live export trade in the strongest terms on the grounds of
the horrific cruelty that is endemic throughout all stages of the live export
process.

   AACT is particularly dismayed to learn that a ship is due in Devonport early
in February to load 38,000 sheep for the Middle East. AACT has been trying to
learn the name of the ship and its movements, with no success. The matter is
shrouded in secrecy.

   In an effort to sanitise its activities, the live export industry and the
shippers have now changed the names of the ships with the worst histories of
disasters so that the Australian public will not associate them with their
appalling histories.

   Those ships include the Cormo Express (now the Merino Express), the
Corriedale Express (now the Kenoz) and the Temburong (now the Angus Express).
Those three ships and others have all been the subject of inquiries for
excessive mortalities.

   Suzanne Cass

   Live export

   campaign co-ordinator

   Against Animal

   Cruelty Tasmania

   Sandy Bay

   Torture

   As always, articles on animal cruelty ignore one of the greatest mass
cruelties of modern times . . . the keeping of dogs in suburban backyards.

   If a dog could speak it would surely echo the recent revelation by a New
Zealand animal behaviour expert that isolation for this particularly social
creature is torture. Torture.

   This cruel imprisonment of dogs in backyards provokes its cry of distress in
the only way it can -- it barks. Because its suffering is ignored it barks some
more. And some more.

   Nobody attends because barking is so common it's seen as normal. In truth it
indicates an appalling situation that's inexcusable in a society that calls
itself caring.

   Peter Bright

   Kingston

   QUICK VIEWS

   On rebound

   In recognition of his pre-Australian Open comments regarding the speed of the
Melbourne Park court surfaces and the speed with which he's popped the question
to Bec Cartwright, might I suggest that Lleyton Hewitt should forever more be
known as the Rebound Ace.

   Scott Lancaster

   West Moonah

   Shame, shame

   Auschwitz. Guantanamo. The 60-year link in man's inhumanity to man. We have
not improved for all our supposed Christian roots. Shame on the Howard
Government.

   J. A. Fenwick

   Devonport

   Inauguration

   Good to know someone thinks George Bush's balls are necessary (Jack
Sonnemann, Letters, January 26).

   Christine Robinson

   Lenah Valley

   Food for thought

   We have been advised that Ricky Ponting's luxurious waterfront home contains
six bedrooms and four bathrooms. No pantry for Ponting?

   David Tregear

   West Moonah

   World first

   Tasmania may have another first -- pregnant man! There are definitely more
and more sightings of bellies that would make one believe this!

   Helene Lesage

   Bellerive

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              117 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2005 Nation Multimedia Group
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

BYLINE: The Nation.

BODY:

   LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

   Homophobic advertising must not be allowed to pass unchallenged

   I follow The Nations editorial page and have noticed that responses to gay
articles are rare; hence, I am compelled to write lest people would think that
we (gays) are illiterate and un-opinionated. I agree with the writer that the
Top Charoen Optical ad was in poor taste [Out & About: An optical shops ad that
pokes fun at transvestites for no good reason deserves to be roundly condemned,
Weekend, January 28]. (PS: all eyesight-challenged and self-respecting gays
should refrain from buying things from the stores, and JW Thompson should be
banned from all gay-related usage.)

   One thing remains clear, however: showing gays being attacked can sell
products or at least grabs public attention. And in my pink mind, thats exactly
what Top Charoen Optical is hoping for public attention. Its name is mentioned,
it gets coverage in The Nation if it were otherwise they probably would have
pulled it off the air and apologised by now.

   So, simple finger-pointing (in this case) will not do. We need to let them
know that picking on groups (any group) just because they are different is not
the right way to do business. Or else, we must let them know that any attention
they get will be purely negative. I, for one, do not appreciate being
ill-perceived, categorised and used as a marketing ploy. And I used to believe
that we are now above that. Ask yourself, what can you do'

   Banjapat La-Orkhun

   Bangkok

   *********************


   Thailand has seen a lot of changes in four years


   If I were Thai, I would want all Thai people to become wealthier, so that no
one would have to work as a go-go dancer.

   If I were Thai, I would want more Thai companies to go global by extending
their businesses to other countries. I would want them to polish the image of
the Land of Smiles.

   If I were Thai, I would want my leader to defend the pride and dignity of my
country, and that all Thai people would stand behind him when there was a verbal
attack from another jealous country.

   If I were Thai, I would want to welcome many tourists to my country, but at
the same I would feel proud when I bumped into them as a tourist during my own
travels around the world.

   For the past four years, Thailand has taken a big step towards achieving my
wishes.

   Chan rak Thai

   Bangkok

   *********************


   The Thai people seem to appreciate the PMs style


   Observation of Thailands political scene leaves no doubt: Thai Rak Thai, or
rather its leader Thaksin Shinawatra, will win the parliamentary elections on
February 6 with an overwhelming majority.

   Most voters who declare themselves to be pro-Thaksin argue that they support
the TRT leader because of his strong, effective leadership. The prime minister
may make mistakes once in a while, but his relentless work is in the interest of
the country. These statements show that contrary to widely held belief, Thais do
know what they are voting for by casting their ballot for TRT and Mr Thaksin.

   Thais, it seems, want strong leadership. Their trust is not with the
government or with TRT, but with one person. They believe that Thaksin and his
CEO style can get things done. Thais know that Thaksins leadership style is
different from the democratic decision-making process. But strong leadership is
more important than democracy. And so a majority of people will give an
undemocratic leadership model their democratic legitimacy.

   The priority of results over principles is not new. During the governments
war on drugs, a majority of Thais supported the tough measures taken by the
authorities. What counted were the results and not questions about whether this
policy was lawful.

   A great majority of people voted for Thaksin in 2001 even though there were
allegations of asset concealment. Again, Thais made a deliberate decision to
ignore short-term considerations and think about the future.

   Four years later, and with all the experience gained from the stark
deterioration of Thailands human-rights record the silencing of the governments
political opponents; the governments media monopoly it still seems to be the
democratic will of the majority to be governed by the person who bears the
overall responsibility for all these changes.

   This point is important. As people in a democratic society we have to accept
it when a majority of the people voluntarily opt for undemocratic leadership.
But those who vote for this leadership (and its policies) must also remember
that the ultimate responsibility for this development remains with the Thai
people.

   Should the experiment in self-imposed and democratically legitimised
authoritarianism fail, should it lead to a further curbing of individual rights
and freedoms, should it lead to the ruling of a few over the majority should any
of this happen, people must not complain.

   Everybody knows what the price of strong leadership is. Everybody who wants
to can read the signs on the wall. But the majority of Thais who will vote for
Thaksin have deliberately decided to put opportunism above conscience.

   Thais are champions in mastering their daily lives. But in many cases they
fail when it comes to thinking ahead. And so it is only a very small group of
people who are asking themselves now whether they will eventually be able to get
rid of an undemocratic system that was established with democratic means.

   History, as we all know, suggests that the answer to this question is no.
Democratic mechanisms may lead to the establishment of undemocratic regimes.

   But it is in the very nature of undemocratic regimes that, once installed,
they cannot be removed by democratic means.

   With these considerations, the elections of February 6 are much more than an
exercise in democracy. Thailand is at a crossroads. For now, it is still up to
the people to decide the future of their country.

   Chumlong Siripang

   Paris

   *********************


   Success in Iraq could have good knock-on effects


   Scenes of Iraqi men and women queuing up in long lines, waiting to vote in an
atmosphere fraught with danger make us pause to think how fortunate we are that
this coming Sunday, when we here in Thailand will exercise our own democratic
rights, we will be doing so in relative safety.

   The Iraqi people deserve the praise and commendation they are receiving from
around the world for the courage and determination they have shown in exercising
their democratic rights in the face of tremendous dangers.

   Hopefully, this exercise in self-determination will be a first step towards
the withdrawal of foreign troops, to security and a return to normal in the
longer term. And the elimination of yet another source of the disenchantment
that fosters religious fanaticism as well as terrorism.

   If the bulk of the American troops can be home by the next Congressional
elections in November 2006, the US administration may have the time and energy
to lance another boil and bring about the peaceful creation of a Palestinian
state, thereby eliminating a long-standing cause of fanaticism and terrorism and
lessening tensions not only in the Middle East, but elsewhere in the Muslim
ullama, or community.

   Also, if there is enough time before the second Bush administration rides
into the sunset, the promise of promoting freedom and democracy could be
fulfilled and left as a lasting legacy through one final exercise of benign and
selfless military and economic power, perhaps somewhere here in Southeast Asia.

   Kobsak Chutikul

   Bangkok

   US would do well to think about Haig remarks


   Appearing on the Fox News channel to discuss the Iraqi election, former US
secretary of state General Alexander Haig got onto Foxs usual point that all in
the world would be great if only the Europeans would stop having their own
opinions and simply followed Americas lead. To my amazement he stated that the
Spanish PM had copped out in the interests of his people, and by this I suppose
he was referring to the withdrawal of Spanish troops from the coalition which
was the wish of the overwhelming majority of the Spanish people.

   Its a rare enough event to see a politician actually do what his people want
instead of telling them what hes going to do, but to be criticised for acting in
the best interests of his people instead of following the American line defies
description. With attitudes like this its little wonder that Americans are
detested the world over. Yet the only ones who dont get it are the Americans
themselves.

   Ponthep Sirirod

   Chiang Mai

   *********************


   Prisons should also rehabilitate prisoners


   I was interested to read the article Street Wise: Chilling Out in the Bangkok
Hilton [Business, January 25], but am I to understand correctly that the writer
does not support any improvement in the conditions in Thai prisons' Have you
read Damage Done' or any other book of personal accounts of life in Thai prisons
' Or visited a Thai prison'

   I thought the idea of prison was to take away someones freedom as a
punishment there is no reason why the conditions in prison should be like hell.
Its the loss of freedom that is the punishment.

   If you were offered the chance to stay in a room in a five-star hotel for say
two years on the condition that you never leave the room, see your family or
friends or work would you take that offer' I doubt it. Even if you did after a
few weeks you would regret it.

   Would giving prisoners basic but more humane conditions really encourage
people to break the law to go to prison' I suspect most people who break the law
either do so assuming they will not be caught or do so without thinking at all.
Most people in prison are released back into society therefore there has to be a
rehabilitation element to their punishment. If we treat prisoners like animals,
what will they be like when they are released'

   Prisons should punish by loss of freedom, not loss of humanity. Prisoners
need education and training to develop themselves or else they could have no
choice but to return to crime for a living. Many may have drug habits, which is
another issue. I support the modernisation of the prison system and hope that it
will result in more efforts to rehabilitate the majority of prisoners who will
be released.

   Eddie Hobden

   Bangkok*********************

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              118 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2005 Nation Multimedia Group
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: BIZARRE BITES

BYLINE: The Nation.

BODY:

   BIZARRE BITES

   -Jilted lover goes public expensively

   A Florida husband has taken out a full-page ad in a local newspaper to ask
for his estranged wifes forgiveness. Larry, who declined to give his last name
and lives in Orlando, spent US$17,000 (Bt66,000) for the apology to his wife
Marianne in The Florida Times Union. It read: Please believe the words in my
letter, they are true and from my heart. I can only hope you will give me the
chance to prove my unending love for you. Life without you is empty and
meaningless.

   There is no word yet on whether the wife has accepted the expensive apology.


   -Mean-spirited computer virus

   A new worm is spreading between computers and its rather insulting.
PandaLabs, a worm and virus buster, says it has detected the appearance of a
worm called Cisum A, which insults the computer user by displaying the following
message on screen: You are an idiot while playing an MP3 audio file that repeats
the same phrase. The worm also shuts down anti-virus programs and other IT
security applications, leaving the computer vulnerable to attack from other
viruses or hackers.


   -Tights preferred to tuxes

   Could American football finally be beating the Academy Awards as a major TV
event in the eyes of women' A new survey shows 46 per cent of ladies in the US
would plan a Super Bowl party if they had a plasma-screen TV, but only 4 per
cent would throw a bash for the Oscars if they happened to have one.


   -The science of smooching

   French-kissing may be fun, but it leaves you with a really yucky mouth.
Swedish scientists have discovered that the typical spit-swapping session leads
to the exchange of more than 40,000 parasites and 250 types of bacteria.
Ananova.com reports that the study, released to encourage better oral health,
also shows kissing couples swap 0.7 grams of protein and 0.45 grams of fat.


   -Lawmen loosen lederhosen

   Police in Texas are trying to uncover the bare facts of illegal prostitution
by getting into the buff. Houston police have changed their tactics and are
allowing undercover officers to get naked in an attempt to obtain evidence as
part of a crackdown on suspected brothels that advertise as day spas, lingerie
modelling studios, massage parlours or stress relief clinics. Previously, an
internal policy barred officers from removing their clothes, but since the new
birthday suit rules have been in place, several illegal businesses have been
caught with their pants down.


   n Well, at least theyll have something to eat

   Three wannabe bank robbers in Macedonia will get a big surprise when they
open up their bag of loot: Its filled with nothing but sausages and sandwiches.
The Dnevnik newspaper reports the thieves heisted a money bag from the banks
manager without realising it contained no cash just the managers groceries.


   -Flaming faeces flummox fire-fighters

   Environmental officials in Nebraska are trying to squeeze out a solution for
a 2,000-tonne mountain of flaming cow manure in a cattle feed lot thats been
polluting the air for two months now. The Omaha World-Herald reports that water
has been ruled out as an extinguisher because it would cause a nasty runoff to
nearby streams, while a recent attempt to disperse the smouldering dung into
smaller piles only led to another fire breaking out.


   -Cursing killer silenced

   A judge in Florida took a gag order a little too far when he ordered officers
to duct tape the mouth of an angry murderer who had been verbally abusing him
with four-letter words. According to the Saint Petersburg Times, it took six
prison officers clad in body armour and helmets to carry out Judge Brandt
Downeys orders and seal up Emory Carters mouth after the judge handed down a
life sentence.


   -Over-educated on the way to school

   A school bus driver in Greece could get the shaft for popping in a porn tape
on the bus TV system while shuttling a group of 12- to-15-year-olds to school. A
student who was riding the bus says, The driver said kids weve got porn, do you
want to watch it' Everyone started shouting yes, yes and he put in a tape and we
watched it on the small TV screens on the bus. The incident has prompted many
complaints from parents who are demanding that the driver be sacked.



   -Monkey man botches robbery

   A man in China wasnt monkeying around when he tried to rob a convenience
store in a monkey suit. The Mainichi Daily News reports that a middle-aged man
swung into the store wielding a knife and demanded money from the cashier. The
employee immediately went into the stores office to alert the manager, but when
the manager came out, the furry man creature had disappeared.


   -Taking Childs play to new heights

   Engineers at Legoland theme park in Carlsbad, California, are preparing to
break a world record for the tallest Lego tower ever built. Park officials say
the old record is held by AS Rekato, a company which organised the construction
of a Lego tower in Tallinn, Estonia, in 1998. To break the record, Legoland
engineers will build a tower at least 25 metres high and use more than 500,000
stacking bricks. Construction will take place later this month.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              119 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2005 Nation Multimedia Group
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: COMMENT: Checks and balances could disappear

BYLINE: The Nation.

BODY:

   COMMENT: Checks and balances could disappear

   Come Sunday, democracy will very likely hand a man who has always shown
contempt for its core values near-absolute power.

   Yet the irony hardly ends there. The expected landslide triumph of the ruling
Thai Rak Thai Party will bring back many things that Thais used to abhor and
fought bitterly to change in the 1970s and more recently in the early 90s.
Idealism will be snubbed, and the nobody-is-perfect argument will rule the day,
no matter how solid the reasonable doubts about Thaksin Shinawatra are.



   How many voters will go to the polling stations and reflect deeply on the
state of democracy in our country instead of bemoaning the lack of alternative
in Thai politics'

   On the day freedom and liberty are supposed to be exercised and celebrated,
the very essence of a truly democratic system checks and balances could give way
to an unprecedented one-party rule by those with alarming records when it comes
to corruption, intolerance and respect for human rights.

   The 1997 Peoples Constitution advocates a stronger government to ensure
stability and continuity, something which were lacking then. With good
intention, the constitutional drafters hoped that these twin goals would lead
genuine democratic development. As it turned out, Thai Rak Thai has been able to
wrestle control of nearly all aspects of Thai society, be it in the executive,
legislative, media and civil-society sectors.

   With so much preponderance of power being held by one man, it can jeopardise
the healthy and already shaky balance of roles in each sector and thus render
the whole country one-dimensional and unprotected. On-going political spins have
created an impression that a stronger and more powerful leader is what the
country needs. While we cant argue with some of Thai Rak Thais successes, the
bottom line is democracy must not be the price to pay for them.

   The ruling party has promoted its campaign platform largely on populist
programmes with mega give-away projects. Its formidable marketing power,
understandable appeal among grass-roots voters and whirlwind actions have
somehow blurred the merits of democracy, which despite all its virtue cannot
deliver fast results unless strong foundations are laid.

   Thai Rak Thai leaders have failed to assure the public that a one-party
government would not dent our hard-won democracy. Without such a guarantee, and
given what they have done to the current checks-and-balances mechanisms, the
country will fall into a death trap if they are given the benefit of the doubt.

   The best way out is to ensure that there are sufficient opposition MPs who
can do the monitoring for all of us and have just enough votes to scrutinise the
prime minister in Parliament. This is an unusual plea but Thailands situation is
far from normal.

   One-party rule is only acceptable if the general environment allows
pluralism. But Thai Rak Thai has dominated too many aspects of Thai life without
showing much moral integrity. Worse, many things done in its second term will be
claimed as being done in the name of 14 or 15 million voters.Funny how democracy
got itself into trouble. Whether it can be saved will depend on voters who now
have to pick between a man and the system.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              120 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Social Security to Be Focus Of Much of Bush's Address

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Elisabeth Bumiller and Carl Hulse contributed
reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

BODY:

   President Bush will use his State of the Union address on Wednesday night to
begin setting out details of his plan for overhauling Social Security, but will
stick largely to generalities when it comes to the politically painful subject
of cuts in benefits, administration officials and Republicans who have been
briefed on the speech said Tuesday.

     The White House said Mr. Bush's speech would be split roughly equally
between foreign policy and domestic issues. The big themes, officials said,
would be how to build on the successes of the democratic elections in
Afghanistan, the Palestinian territories and Iraq, and the need to modernize
domestic programs, foremost among them Social Security.

     Speaking three days after millions of Iraqis went to the polls, Mr. Bush
will not set out a plan to bring home American troops, but will emphasize the
importance of completing the job of training Iraqi security forces to take on
primary responsibility for battling the insurgency there, officials said.

     The administration plans to follow up the State of the Union address with a
new budget proposal on Monday that will provide more specifics and is expected
to hold spending increases on discretionary domestic programs to less than 1
percent.

     Administration officials portrayed Mr. Bush as determined in his State of
the Union address to lay to rest questions about his willingness and ability to
confront the political difficulties inherent in his proposal to add individual
investment accounts to Social Security and to put the retirement system on firm
financial ground for the long run.

     ''There will be no doubt, I believe, in people's minds by the end of this
speech that President Bush is willing to offer the political leadership
necessary to get this issue done,'' a senior administration official told
reporters at a briefing on the speech.

     But the official suggested that most of the details Mr. Bush would make
public would relate to his proposal for private investment accounts. Mr. Bush
told members of Congress last week that he favored giving workers a relatively
limited menu of investment options, to keep management fees down and to reduce
the risk of losses from overly risky investment decisions.

     Mr. Bush will not endorse any detailed approach to how benefits should be
cut to bring the retirement system's finances into line and meet the president's
goal of making Social Security permanently solvent, administration officials and
Republicans who have been consulted by the White House said. Under the system's
current projections, Social Security will start taking in less in payroll tax
revenue than it pays out in benefits in 2018, and by 2042 will have run through
its trust fund of government bonds and will be able to pay only around
three-quarters of benefits promised by the current system.

     Instead of dwelling on the need for cuts in benefits, officials said, Mr.
Bush will frame the situation as an opportunity. They said he would emphasize
that the current system promises ever-increasing benefits to future generations,
but cannot meet that commitment, and that the nation has a chance to minimize
the scale of the required reductions and perhaps make people better off through
the addition of personal accounts -- if it acts now rather than waiting.

     ''The status quo is benefit cuts or massive tax increases,'' the official
said at the briefing for reporters. ''What the president will say is, there are
steps we can take to make it better than the status quo.''

     The official said that when it came to the most politically difficult
decisions in addressing Social Security's long-term problems, Mr. Bush would be
''welcoming ideas and solutions across the board'' and was ''not at the point
where we want to be ruling things out'' beyond his previously expressed
opposition to tax increases.

     With many Republicans in Congress leery about rushing into the issue, the
president has been under intensifying pressure from some members of his party to
provide them with political cover by putting on the table his specific proposals
for Social Security.

     Democrats have accused him of masking the reality that his approach will
require substantial reductions in benefits for future retirees and are planning
a vigorous opposition. ''President Bush should forget about privatizing Social
Security,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader told reporters
on Capitol Hill. ''It will not happen. The sooner he comes to that realization,
the better off we are.''

     In recent weeks, the White House has floated a plan for reducing the
government-paid benefit in coming decades by altering the formula used to
calculate it.

     The White House official who briefed reporters on the speech said Mr. Bush
would take detailed positions on Social Security in coming weeks and months, but
only to the extent that doing so would help Congress move forward. The official,
who spoke before an auditorium full of journalists, insisted on not being quoted
by name. Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, said the goal in not
allowing the use of the official's name was to keep the focus on Mr. Bush.

     The address will contain some new initiatives, including one involving
medical research that appeared intended in part to tamp down criticism that Mr.
Bush has gone too far in limiting federally financed experimentation using
embryonic stem cells, people who have been briefed on the speech said.

     But its domestic centerpiece will be Social Security, and Mr. Bush will
embark the morning after his speech on a five-state, two-day swing to drum up
support for his approach. Vice President Dick Cheney and other administration
officials will also stump the country on behalf of Mr. Bush's agenda.

     In a meeting with reporters on Tuesday, the Democratic leaders of Congress
affirmed their position that Mr. Bush was exaggerating the problems with Social
Security, with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic
leader, calling it a ''diversionary'' tactic on the part of the White House to
distract the public from other issues.

     Democrats said that their party intended to aggressively counter the
president on Social Security as he traveled the country and that not a single
Democratic senator had expressed any support for Mr. Bush's call for partial
privatization.

     ''I think the president's attempt to try to manipulate public opinion is
going to be met with others who believe the president is not headed in the right
direction,'' said Mr. Reid, who said he expected a barrage of radio, newspaper
and television advertisements. ''We are united.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              121 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Agency Scientists Divided Over Ethics Ban on Consulting

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

BODY:

   New rules prohibiting outside consulting arrangements by researchers at the
National Institutes of Health have been welcomed by some scientists, with the
agency's director saying that group has ''said that we needed this.'' But
others, said the director, Dr. Elias Zerhouni, have threatened ''to walk across
the street'' to work for organizations that do not have such a ban.

    The rules, formally announced at a news conference on Tuesday, ban
consulting arrangements by scientists at the agency and pharmaceutical and
biotech companies.

    ''There's no doubt that among the majority of the 5,000 scientists who never
did anything wrong and never broke any rules, they see this as being taken into
a tsunami of regulations,'' Dr. Zerhouni said.

    Dr. Sheldon Krimsky, a researcher at Tufts University who specializes in
science policy and ethics, said the changes were welcome, albeit overdue.

    ''Imagine if someone working for one of the economic agencies of government
made a deal with a company involved in forecasting and gave them privileged
access to government data,'' Dr. Krimsky said. ''It would never have flown, but
somehow biomedical scientists got away with it.''

    The rules, which will take effect in a few days, grew out of revelations
over the past year that some of the agency's leading scientists had lent their
names to drug industry marketing efforts.

    Under them, N.I.H. scientists will be banned from working in either a paid
or an unpaid capacity for drug and biotechnology companies, health care
providers, insurers, trade associations and educational institutions that apply
for money from the agency.

    The rules will also ban top scientists from owning shares in drug or
biotechnology companies. Lower-level employees will be able to own as much as
$15,000 in company shares. Gifts of greater than $200 will be banned. Scientists
will be prohibited from accepting many academic prizes.

    ''Nothing is more important than preserving the public trust,'' Dr. Zerhouni
said.

    Banning consulting arrangements between government scientists and private
companies is the only way to avoid such conflicts, Dr. Krimsky said.

    For much of last year, Dr. Zerhouni insisted that some N.I.H. scientists
should be allowed to continue their consulting arrangements, not only to prevent
them from leaving the agency for more lucrative jobs elsewhere but also because
such arrangements sharpened their skills. He derided calls for complete bans as
''ivory tower'' proposals that flew in the face of the agency's need to work
toward cures.

    But revelations that some agency scientists had lent their names -- and thus
the name of the institution -- to drug industry marketing efforts made him
change his mind, Dr. Zerhouni said. He added that less strict proposals that
simply banned consulting by top agency administrators would not have stopped
lower-level scientists from being ''a marketing tool for the outside party.''

    Dr. Zerhouni said the rules would remain in effect until the agency decided
to change them. But some said that such a change was unlikely in the foreseeable
future.

    Among the cases that Dr. Zerhouni has condemned is that of Dr. Bryan Brewer
Jr., chief of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute's molecular disease
branch. In 2003, Dr. Brewer wrote an article promoting the benefits of Crestor,
a cholesterol-lowering drug from AstraZeneca.

    The article was published in a medical journal ''supplement'' paid for by
AstraZeneca, and Dr. Brewer's N.I.H. title was prominently displayed. The
article failed to mention potentially serious safety problems with Crestor. Dr.
Zerhouni has described Dr. Brewer's Crestor article as ''a product-driven
endorsement.''

    Cases like Dr. Brewer's were revealed in a series in The Los Angeles Times
as well as in hearings held by the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The
committee's investigation uncovered 30 to 40 N.I.H. scientists who were
consulting for drug and biotechnology companies but who had failed to inform the
agency or get permission for these arrangements.

    Dr. Zerhouni said that many of the cases were still under investigation, and
that some of those employees could be disciplined. Sanctions could vary from
counseling to dismissal, another official said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              122 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: They Say That Breaking In Isn't Hard to Do (for Ex-Pros)

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

BODY:

   Having your home broken into is a devastating experience. ''I should know,''
Matt Johnson announces ominously. ''I used to do it for a living.''

    Mr. Johnson is a host of Discovery Channel's ''It Takes a Thief,'' a
well-meaning but lifeless reality series that has its premiere tonight. Mr.
Johnson and his co-host, Jon Douglas Reiny, are described playfully in publicity
materials as ''two 'retired' burglars.'' Neither man demonstrates remorse or
guilt for his life of crime, and Mr. Johnson clearly did not stop by journalism
school on his way to a new television career. His interviewing style consists of
asking ''How are you guys feeling?'' every few minutes.

     Well, Susie and Henry and their daughters are feeling violated, they say
while watching their house being robbed. They have been chosen for the first
episode because their house is set well back from the road and far from
neighbors, with the owners' full names on the mailbox. All the easier to pick up
the cellphone and call to be sure they're not home.

    So the family leaves the house and watches surveillance monitors as Mr.
Reiny breaks into their home, which doesn't take long. He kicks in the garage's
side door, enters the house and gets away with thousands of dollars' worth of
computers, heirloom silver, jewelry and other goods. And he drives it all away
in the BMW that belonged to the couple's son, Anthony, who died of bone cancer
three years ago. ''Nobody touches that car,'' Susie keeps saying, even as it
disappears from view. Mr. Reiny also steals enough personal paperwork to commit
identity theft.

    Watching a thief work isn't particularly interesting in an age when almost
everyone has seen actual videotaped crimes on television news programs. The next
step, a ''security makeover'' on the house, is as predictable as voice-over
comments like ''Sentimental value means nothing to a thief.''

    The experts install shatter-resistant glass and a new lock on the tool shop;
replace the names on the mailbox with large numbers; add a deadbolt lock on the
side garage door; put lights on timers; instruct the family to keep cars locked
and the alarms turned on, even when they're in the garage; and recommend that
they keep car keys somewhere a little less accessible than inside the car. They
also suggest not hanging a tall ladder outside in plain view.

    ''You should put milk and cookies right here'' near the ladder for the
burglar, Mr. Reiny says.

    The final step is a surprise visit from the two host-burglars, who test the
new security by trying to break into the house again.

    ''It Takes a Thief,'' which borrows its name from the old television drama
series (Alfred Hitchcock's 1955 film with Cary Grant as a debonair cat burglar
was ''To Catch a Thief''), has some awareness-raising value, but that's all. The
hosts try hard to banter with ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' camaraderie.

    Mr. Johnson, wondering what has caught his co-host's eye, guesses, ''I would
say there's probably a nice car there.'' Mr. Reiny replies, ''You know my
fetishes so well.''

    Between two men who used to rob honest people of their cherished
possessions, this kind of joking is just in bad taste.

'It Takes a Thief'
Discovery, tonight at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

Tony Tackaberry, executive producer; Suzy Geller, executive producer for
Discovery Channel. A production of Lion TV.

WITH: Jon Douglas Reiny and Matt Johnson.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Johnson, a former burglar and a host of ''It Takes a Thief.
'' The show gives security makeovers to vulnerable homes. (Photo by Laura
Pedrick/Discovery Channel)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              123 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Father Accused Of Killing Infant Who Was Crying

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

BODY:

   A 31-year-old New Jersey man fatally attacked his infant daughter as she
cried on Monday night, punching her repeatedly and biting her, the Bergen County
prosecutor said yesterday.

    The man, John Arce of Lodi, a deliveryman, was being held at the Bergen
County Jail on charges of homicide and child endangerment.

     The prosecutor, John L. Molinelli, said that on Monday night, Mr. Arce
visited his 2-month-old daughter, Victoria Rose Arce, who lived with her mother,
Christina, 26, at the home of her mother's parents, in Paramus. The infant's
parents are not married, and Mr. Molinelli would not release the mother's last
name.

    Around midnight, Mr. Arce took Victoria Rose, who was crying, to her crib,
Mr. Molinelli said. ''He drew the baby toward his chest and began to strike the
baby with a closed fist in the head,'' Mr. Molinelli said.

    A preliminary autopsy showed multiple fractures to Victoria Rose's head,
other blunt trauma to her body, and a bite mark on her left arm, Mr. Molinelli
said.

    After placing Victoria Rose in her crib, Mr. Arce covered her with a
blanket, the prosecutor said. Christina's father later went to check on Victoria
Rose and noticed she was not breathing. She was taken to Bergen Regional Medical
Center, where she was pronounced dead at 1:20 a.m. yesterday.

    Mr. Molinelli said that the father's motives appeared clear: ''He was
annoyed, and he did this to quiet the baby.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              124 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Accents of Africa: A New Outsourcing Frontier

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Jan. 30

BODY:

   Susan Mina, a Kenyan who has never stepped foot out of Africa, speaks English
like the haughtiest of Britons. She can also put on a fair imitation of an
American accent by swallowing all her words. Still, every once in a while, some
Swahili slips out of her and that is not at all helpful as she tries to enhance
Africa's role in the global explosion of outsourcing.

     It happened the other day when she was trying to get a British man to sign
up for a new cellular telephone service. He was in his home, minding his own
business. She sat near the Nairobi airport, doing her business as a sales agent
for KenCall, Kenya's first international call center. The man's accent -- she
pegged it as Irish -- was unintelligible to her. ''Pole sana?'' she blurted out,
which is what one says in Swahili instead of ''Huh?''

     Controlling one's Swahili is just one of the challenges that Kenyans are
facing as they play catch-up in an industry that India and other countries have
turned into major job generators.

     Kenya's regular phone lines are so abysmal that the founders of KenCall had
to go through the cumbersome process of getting government approval to use a
costly satellite hookup. Even more dollars were burned on an elaborate generator
system aimed at keeping KenCall's computer screens running during Nairobi's
frequent power failures.

     ''Africa needs to raise its game,'' said Russell Southwood, who publishes
an online newsletter on telecommunications in Africa at balancingact-africa.com.
''It needs to show the world that it can do more than pick minerals out of the
ground and grow fruits and vegetables.''

     KenCall is now up and running, and eager to lure business from Western
companies that want cheap labor -- but educated cheap labor like Ms. Mina, who
has a university degree but earns less than $5,000 a year, not as much as a
fast-food cashier would make in the United States.

     Although just a tiny entrant in the call-center market, KenCall has enough
clients to keep 200 telephone operators busy. Some of the Kenyan sales agents
dial up Britons and urge them to save money on their cellular phones. Others
dial up Americans and ask if they are interested in refinancing their home
mortgages. Without knowing it, some Americans even dial up Kenya, responding to
advertisements offering low-income grants or job assistance.

     After looking on for years as Asia cashed in on the outsourcing boom,
Africa is now aggressively seeking its piece of the action.

     Datamonitor, a consulting firm that follows outsourcing, estimates that
there are 54,000 call-center jobs in the most advanced countries in Africa, out
of a total of 6 million such jobs worldwide. But the 54,000 figure only includes
South Africa and the countries of North Africa, not emerging call centers in
places like Ghana and Kenya.

     ''There's a lot of potential in Africa,'' said Peter Ryan, an analyst at
Datamonitor. ''India, the Philippines and Canada are relatively mature, and that
means wages and real estate are higher. So companies are asking, 'Are there
other locations?'''

     South Africa is far ahead of the rest of the continent, with an estimated
500 call centers employing about 31,000 people. South Africa boasts that the
accents of its workers are neutral enough to fool English speakers everywhere.
It also has the same time zones as parts of Europe, making doing business
easier.

     Ghana, which makes similar claims about its population's understandable
English, has lured Affiliated Computer Services Inc., an outsourcing company
based in Dallas that employs about 2,000 Ghanaians to process health forms for
Aetna and other insurers.

     With vast populations of French speakers, Africa is working to claim that
part of the market as well. French-language call centers are operating in
Morocco, Senegal, Tunisia and Madagascar, all of them dialing up Parisians and
pretending to be just down the ''rue.''

     ''They say, 'You have a charming accent,''' Fanta Diop, a supervisor at a
call center in Dakar, the Senegalese capital, told Reuters recently. ''They
never guess it's black Africa.''

     Much of the outsourcing in Africa is focused on telemarketing, which is
less profitable than processing medical forms or acting as the customer service
department of an overseas corporation. But making cold calls is considered an
entree to the highly competitive industry.

     ''The market for this is huge,'' said Nicholas A. Nesbitt, the chief
executive of KenCall, which he founded with his younger brother, Eric, and his
brother-in-law, Steve Liggins, a retired banker. ''It's not possible to put a
figure on it. Any job that is being done that doesn't require face-to-face
contact can be outsourced. And why not to Kenya?''

     Kenya's political transition in December 2002 prompted KenCall's founders
to return from overseas and invest in the country. The new government has had a
rocky start in fighting corruption and creating new jobs -- its two main
campaign promises. But Mr. Nesbitt said he was able to set up the call center
without doling out any bribes -- ''not even so much as a cup of coffee,'' he
said.

     Not only does the country offer an advantage that stems from its tepid
economic growth over the years, its people have what Mr. Nesbitt calls a '
'pleasant Anglicized accent.'' Many of its college graduates are unemployed or
underemployed, and are eager to dial around the world for a paycheck that would
be considered meager in the United States -- about $4,500 a year, including
performance bonuses. That income is well above that of the average person in
Kenya, where subsistence farming is the most popular job. Still, it only
provides for a rather no-frills life in the costly capital.

     Ms. Mina, one of KenCall's top sellers, graduated from a local university
in 2002 but searched in vain for a job. ''I have so many friends who did not go
to university and they are driving big cars,'' she said. ''It's been so
frustrating.''

     One of her colleagues, Brian Mawanda, became so used to rejection in his
job search that he believes the experience is helping him deal with all those
people he calls who are not interested in what he is selling.

     ''I've had so many doors slammed in my face,'' said Mr. Mawanda, who
graduated from college in 2001 with degrees in business administration and
communications. ''Now, the worst someone can do is insult me and hang up.''

     Some of KenCall's agents must change their names on the job, trading
Wanjira for Wendy, for instance. And they receive nonstop feedback from
supervisors on their accents, their sales pitches and their ability to think on
their feet.

     One frequent issue is the Kenyan habit of letting out a little grunt when
someone else is talking, which is supposed to reassure speakers that their words
are being heard. Some agents grow alarmed if the person on the other end of the
line is quiet and ask with alarm: ''Hello? Hello? Are you there?''

     Some call-center workers have traveled the world, picking up their accents
in the process. For others, KenCall is their virtual travel. Ms. Mina, for
instance, visualizes herself sitting in the living rooms of the foreigners she
is talking to on the phone.

     And even without leaving Nairobi, she and other agents are learning about
cultural differences. Britons, the agents say, are far more likely to chat
extensively with a telemarketer even if they have no interest in the product.
Americans are a different story. They are abrupt, the Kenyans say.

     All the dialers, even those who have honed their accents to perfection, are
inevitably asked where they are calling from. Usually, the agents say no more
than that they are calling on behalf of a company based in, say, York. But that
does not fool some people, who often receive calls from India and other parts of
the world.

     When KenCall's agents do fess up that they are in Africa, there is
inevitably a pause at the other end of the line. And then the reaction comes. It
could be an anti-African slur. It could be just silence and the slamming down of
the phone. But every once in a while, there are prospective buyers who have
vacationed in Kenya and a rehash begins of the wonderful time they had.

     That is when Ms. Mina's heart starts beating fast. She plays along, does a
bit of tourism promotion for her country and then, ever so gently, steers the
conversation back to the product at hand. ''I still remember when one man who I
talked to for so long finally said, 'Sign me up,''' she said with a smile.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: KenCall, Kenya's first international call center, is luring
telemarketing business from Western companies that want cheap labor. (Photo by
Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Agents for KenCall receive nonstop feedback from supervisors on their accents,
their sales pitches and their ability to think on their feet. (Photo by Evelyn
Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              125 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: In Air So Rarefied, Only Ambrosia Will Do

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

BODY:

   MASA has arguably dislodged it as New York's most expensive restaurant, and
Per Se may well have usurped it in terms of an average meal's running time. But
for a particular and traditional type of decadence, Alain Ducasse at the Essex
House is still the place to go.

    It is at Ducasse that you find upholstered stools for women's handbags. That
your rum baba dessert comes with a selection of five rums ranging in age from 12
to 35 years old and in provenance from Guadeloupe to Guatemala. That the
constant whirl of ever-changing gadgets, implements and vessels suggests a
nightly dishwashing bill to rival the budget of a Martin Scorsese movie.

     And it was at Ducasse that a server instantly spotted my clumsiness with a
vodka martini and responded with more haste and assiduous empathy than a
governor en route to the scene of a natural disaster.

    I couldn't figure out how to separate the olives from their skewer and
proceeded in my dexterous way to dribble liquid all over my hands. For this
calamity the napkin in my lap was obviously insufficient. I needed something
more specialized, something else for the staff to launder later on. So I was
summarily presented with a smaller napkin, precisely centered on its own
Lilliputian plate.

    Alain Ducasse, the great French chef, established this American beachhead
four and a half years ago, and from its turbulent opening to its tranquil
present it has been an exercise in opulent overkill.

    But the details of the drill have been recalibrated time and again. The most
significant tweak came midway through last year. Mr. Ducasse tapped Christian
Delouvrier, who had been in charge of the kitchen at Lespinasse, to become his
executive chef and apply a culinary vision of respect for superior ingredients
subjected to techniques and given presentations that amplify without eclipsing
their splendor.

    Over subsequent months and repeated visits to Ducasse, I had a few
enchanting evenings (how, in a certain sense, could I not?) and a few insanely
indulgent dishes of the sort that I would like to be fed just before my death,
the timing of which has probably been advanced considerably by the aged rib-eye
that a friend and I shared. It was carved tableside, and although already basted
with butter, was further embellished with ribbons of foie gras. This was a fatty
paean not merely to gluttony but to all seven deadly sins.

    I did not, however, experience the magnitude of magic implicitly promised by
this restaurant's braggadocio: the glossy tomes by Mr. Ducasse on display in the
plush parlor that serves as a cocktail lounge; the matte booklet on every table
that lists his bibliography; the gold-crowned columns at the center of the
dining room, which is as simultaneously sumptuous and sepulchral as a pharaoh's
tomb.

    I did not experience the intensity -- or rather consistency -- of pleasure
that should accompany the prices. The simplest three-course menu of appetizer,
entree and dessert is $150. A chef's tasting menu of six courses is $225, and
special truffle menus are in the vicinity of $300.

    That martini, made with Ciroc vodka, was $18. Ducasse's astonishing and
formidable wine list doesn't have very many bottles under $100, but it carries
hundreds over $200. And so I initially offered few particulars one night when I
asked a sommelier to recommend a French red that would be full-bodied enough for
my suckling pig, not too heavy for the preceding lobster tart and about $175.

    ''But what region?'' he said with a derisive huff and repellent hauteur. '
'What grape?'' I wish I could report what he chose, but when I later thanked him
for the fine selection and asked him to write down its name, he wordlessly
reached over and started picking at the label, then abruptly spirited the bottle
away. That was that: I never received the information.

    During later visits, when the restaurant clearly knew me, I was treated with
reliable courtesy, as most diners, from my observation, seemed to be. An
infinitely friendlier sommelier, asked to do wine pairings, made consistently
inspired, interesting selections: a De Trafford chenin blanc from South Africa;
a Carole Bouquet passito zibibbo from Pantelleria, a tiny island off Sicily.

    But there were still odd lapses and fumbles. A server circled back not once
but twice to check on a dessert order that had been clearly enunciated. Even as
diners were escorted to the restroom one night, they were not informed that a
critically important fixture was out of order. Something about Ducasse did not
entirely click, and this was true of the food as well.

    The menu shines a spotlight on the timeless divas of a luxurious larder --
on truffles, caviar, squab -- and Mr. Delouvrier works with them for the most
part in an appealingly classic, straightforward fashion. The quality of the king
salmon that the restaurant gets from Alaska is divine, so on a recent night he
did little more than sear it briefly on a plancha, or special steel griddle. He
then set it on an intense reduction of red wine, sherry and Xeres vinegars and
browned butter.

    A carpaccio of bluefin tuna floated atop a puree of eggplant and toro that
stretched out the flawless fish's flavor, making it linger. An lobe of foie gras
was cunningly paired with caramelized mango of nearly the same size and shape.
The fruit functioned as both flavor counterpoint and textural doppelganger.

    Sea bass was cooked in the liquid from the steaming of clams that were
subsequently arranged atop the fish, giving it extra personality. A langoustine
from Brittany was swaddled in a mesmerizing cauliflower mousseline with black
truffles.

    But there were numerous lackluster dishes and recurring letdowns. Veal was
undercooked on one occasion, while saddle of lamb was overcooked on another. Sea
bream had been left on the plancha too long, although the crunchiness of the
skin was partial redemption. The restaurant was also beset with pasta problems:
foie gras ravioli in which the foie gras was not fully discernible; ricotta
ravioli with even less flavor.

    The final phases of my meals here were the most dependable. The cheese cart,
with more than two dozen selections, never disappointed. The praline and
chocolate souffles that I sampled offered thrilling journeys from ethereal
shells to gooey cores. A combination of Armagnac ice cream, marinated prunes and
a chestnut ''chantilly'' was spectacular. And then of course came chocolates,
macaroons and the restaurant's famous dessert cart, brimming with lollipops,
caramels, financiers, nougats, creme brulee and more.

    Extravagance still thrives at Ducasse, which received four stars from
William Grimes in the New York Times in late 2001. But beneath an unfettered
pageant is an uneven performance, a wow that wavers, a spell less binding than a
restaurant with this much vanity can possibly wish it to be.

   Alain Ducasse
At the Essex House
155 West 58th Street, Midtown; (212)265-7300.

ATMOSPHERE -- An emphatically opulent series of rooms tailored to classic,
elegant French cuisine.
SOUND LEVEL -- Hushed.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Langoustine with cauliflower mousseline; bluefin tuna
carpaccio; squab; lobster; aged rib-eye; cheeses; praline and chocolate
souffles; marinated prunes with Armagnac ice cream.
WINE LIST -- Stunning in its depth, breadth and expense, with almost 1,500
choices. Wine pairings can be done for $90 (three wines) or $120 (five).
PRICE RANGE -- Three-course prix fixe, $150; four-course prix fixe, $175;
six-course seasonal tasting menu, $225; black truffle tasting menu, $280.
HOURS -- 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday; 5:30 to 9:30 p.m. Friday and
Saturday.
RESERVATIONS -- For prime dinner times, call at least two weeks in advance.
Reservations must be guaranteed with a credit card. A penalty of $75 a person is
imposed for last-minute cancellations.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Street-level entrance to main hotel lobby from Central Park
South; restrooms on same level as dining room.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:
(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with
price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
PAST REVIEWS from the Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics:
nytimes.com/dining


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: SURROUNDED BY LUXURY -- Dining by the columns in Alain Ducasse
at the Essex House, which opened in 2000. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York
Times)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              126 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: A Compliment Sharansky Can't Refuse

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 1

BODY:

   Natan Sharansky, the Soviet dissident turned Israeli politician, admits that
his ideas have not much altered his new country. Government after government,
from the left or right, have heard him out politely but then dismissed his
arguments as irrelevant.

    They seem to have found a place, however, in the affections of the American
president, George W. Bush, who has embraced Mr. Sharansky and his new book, '
'The Case for Democracy: The Power of Freedom to Overcome Tyranny & Terror,''
which depicts a clear moral universe divided into ''free societies,'' which
promote peace, and ''fear societies,'' which foster war.

    Mr. Sharansky developed his ideas, which are expected to be featured in Mr.
Bush's State of the Union address, after years of battling the Soviet system and
observing Israel's negotiations with the Palestinians.

    Mr. Sharansky, freed from a Soviet jail in 1986 and an Israeli since then,
mused on his isolation here and his new fan. ''I'm viewed as a cosmonaut, who
spent so much time in the Soviet Union I don't belong to this world,'' he said
in an interview on Tuesday. ''And now the president is viewed as an astronaut,
way out in space. And they want me to explain how it looks from out there!''

    Mr. Sharansky, now 57 and the minister for Jerusalem and diaspora affairs,
has been refining his ideas about the power of freedom and human rights for more
than 10 years, in articles, speeches and cabinet interventions. He has spoken
out against the cult of stability in international affairs, the cynicism of
backing dictators, the refusal to apply moral judgments on allies or enemies.

    He has opposed territorial compromise with the Palestinian Authority until
it keeps its commitments, democratizes and stops inculcating children with
hatred of Israel and of Jews. He has opposed Mr. Sharon's plan to pull out of
the Gaza Strip. He has criticized what he considered the Clinton administration
's pandering to Yasir Arafat while ignoring his involvement in terrorism.

    He always rejected the notion that Israel should help establish Mr. Arafat
as a Palestinian dictator on the presumption that he could control Islamic
fundamentalism and dissent.

    Mr. Sharansky has even criticized both President Bushes -- the father for
trying to preserve the Soviet Union in the name of realpolitik, the son for
failing to live up to his soaring oratory on the Middle East.

    ''Today they call me a right-wing extremist,'' he said, in a jovial but
practiced way. ''Tomorrow I'll be called a left-wing extremist.'' What ''I am,''
he says, landing the punch line, ''is a refusenik,'' a perpetual idealistic
dissident from the messy realities of any current order.

    But as a refusenik -- a Soviet Jew who applied for emigration to Israel to
escape persecution but was refused, deprived of a job and rights and, in his
case, sentenced to nine years in labor camps and prisons -- Mr. Sharansky has a
special status here, the aura of a Jewish saint.

    As a Likud member and former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, Dore
Gold, puts it: ''Sharansky has a very powerful moral voice because he was a
prisoner of Zion.''

    When Mr. Sharansky created his own party 10 years ago, now diminished and
merged with Likud, his platform linked concessions to the Palestinians with the
democratization of Palestinian society and its protection of human rights. '
'Everyone thought that was crazy and had no meaning,'' he said. ''But the fact
that the president of the United States is presenting the same principle makes
it harder to ridicule.''

    The recent election of Mr. Arafat's replacement, Mahmoud Abbas, pleases Mr.
Sharansky, who calls the event important as a nonviolent process. ''Otherwise
they'd choose the next leader by shooting each other,'' he said bluntly.

    ''It can be the beginning of Palestinian democracy,'' he said, ''like the
Iraq elections can be the beginning of Iraqi democracy. But there's still a lot
of fear inside. It's a transitional period. After three or four years you have a
really democratic Iraq. And with the Palestinians, too, it's a transition. But
it all depends on the positions and policies of the free world.''

    Mr. Sharansky is careful to say that Mr. Bush came to his own conclusions
and found in the book a kindred spirit and historical underpinnings.

    Mr. Sharansky's collaborator on the book, Ron Dermer, is amused by the new
attention. ''For years Sharansky has been almost a broken record in Israeli
political discourse,'' he said. ''But now people are finally listening, for some
reason. He hoped for some echo in the United States to the book. But that the
president should be one of the first Americans to read it is something we couldn
't ever expect.''

    The difference now, Mr. Dermer surmised, is the impact of Sept. 11, 2001.
The attack by Al Qaeda provoked a realization that ''the status quo is no longer
good enough,'' he said.

    What connects Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharansky, he said, was ''deep faith in the
universality of freedom and its transformative power.''

    When he was freed, in an exchange of prisoners with the United States, Mr.
Sharansky walked to freedom alone across the Glienicke Bridge, from East Germany
to the west. He was ordered to walk straight across; a refusenik to the end, he
zigzagged. He is zigzagging still.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natan Sharansky, who disagrees with nearly everyone in Israeli
politics, feels flattered that President Bush supports his ideas about
democracy. (Photo by Gil Cohen Magen/Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              127 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Suspect's Girlfriend, 14, Charged In Killing on the Lower East Side

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Sabrina Tavernise, Colin
Moynihan and Janon Fisher contributed reporting for this article.

BODY:

   The 14-year-old girlfriend of the teenager accused of fatally shooting a
young actress last week was also charged with murder yesterday for what
prosecutors said was her role in helping to rob the victim's friends on the
Lower East Side.

    The girlfriend, identified by investigators as Tatianna McDonald of Ocean
Avenue in Kensington, Brooklyn, arrived with her mother at the 73rd Precinct
station house in Brooklyn on Monday night, a day after the police said they were
searching for two girls captured on video with a group of young men near the
scene of the killing.

     ''I'm sorry,'' she told reporters yesterday as detectives tucked her into
the back of a police car outside the Seventh Precinct station house on the Lower
East Side. She is charged with second-degree murder and first-degree robbery as
a juvenile and could face a term of 15 years to life if convicted.

    Shortly after 3 a.m. last Thursday, after a night of bartending and
drinking, the actress, Nicole duFresne, 28, was walking with her fiance and
another couple on Clinton Street near Rivington Street when they were attacked
by a group of young men and women, the police said. The police said the gunman,
identified as Rudy Fleming, 19, first pistol-whipped Ms. duFresne's fiance, then
took the other woman's purse. Ms. duFresne is said to have asked, ''What are you
going to do, shoot us?'' before Mr. Fleming shot her once in the chest, the
police said. She died later that morning.

    Mr. Fleming was arrested over the weekend, as were four friends, two of whom
were charged in an attempted robbery in the same area earlier Thursday morning.
The other two are not charged and are being treated as witnesses. Only Mr.
Fleming was charged in the murder until yesterday.

    A law enforcement official said Ms. McDonald was charged in the crime
because she told detectives that her boyfriend threw the purse to her during the
robbery, and that she went through it and took the woman's cellphone. ''She was
part and parcel to the whole thing,'' one investigator said. ''She's a
14-year-old kid who got caught up with something wrong.''

    The investigator added: ''But I don't think she was a hard case. I don't
believe she was a real hardnose.''

    Outside the precinct house yesterday, a reporter asked Ms. McDonald if she
knew why Mr. Fleming had pulled the trigger, and she shook her head no.

    A neighbor in her building, who declined to give her name, said that many of
the residents were transient, and that she did not know Ms. McDonald well. She
seemed ''just a normal teenage girl,'' the neighbor said.

    The floor on which Ms. McDonald lives is used by the city to provide
temporary housing for the homeless, according to residents and a building
worker. She had been living there with her mother and two brothers for about
four months, they said.

    As Ms. McDonald awaited her arraignment in Manhattan Criminal Court, a man
in the courtroom who identified himself as her father said, ''I just got wind of
this this morning.'' A woman who said she was Ms. McDonald's sister approached
her and removed a pair of earrings from her ears.

    Ms. McDonald was ordered held without bail. The gun that the police believe
was used in the killing, a Taurus Model 65 .357 Magnum revolver, was stolen on
Jan. 7, 2002, from a car parked outside the owner's home in Georgetown, S.C.,
said Capt. Nelson Brown of the Georgetown police.

    Captain Brown said the theft was one of a pattern of about 60 break-ins to
cars and homes in the area, a series of crimes for which a young man and woman
were arrested, convicted and imprisoned. The gun's owner, David Whisnant, 52,
said in a telephone interview that he was deeply troubled to learn that the
revolver, which the police valued at $300, was used in a killing.

    ''I'm just upset about the whole deal,'' said Mr. Whisnant, a self-employed
house painter. ''I'd rather they sold the gun to somebody in Italy. I'm
certainly sorry to hear that it was involved in a murder. I can't say anything
good about that.''

    Mr. Whisnant said he feared the young man who stole his gun would do the
same thing again after serving his sentence. ''They're going to put him away for
three or four years, and he'll get out again and steal someone else's gun and
sell it,'' he said.

    Investigators yesterday were unsure how the gun got from the thief in South
Carolina to New York City. ''What he did with the gun is anybody's guess,''
Captain Brown said of the thief. ''He probably traded it for drugs.''

    As Ms. McDonald's family left the courtroom, her father turned to look at
her and signaled her to phone him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              128 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Companies Get Weapon in
Injury Suits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Many Silica-Damage Plaintiffs Also Filed Claims Over Asbestos

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

BODY:

   Companies battling lawsuits brought by people claiming injuries caused by
exposure to asbestos or silica have long contended that they are the victims of
fraud.

     The companies finally have evidence that their concerns may be real.
Thousands of people who have said they were injured by one potentially lethal
material are apparently double-dipping -- now asserting separately that they
were injured by the other.

     More than half the plaintiffs in a federal lawsuit in Texas seeking
compensation for exposure to silica -- used in making glass, paint, ceramics and
other materials -- previously filed claims against a trust set up to compensate
those injured by asbestos, a cancer-causing flame retardant.

     Jared S. Garelick, a lawyer at the Claims Resolution Management
Corporation, a trust that processes asbestos-related claims, says the discovery
of the other suits came after defense lawyers in the Texas case provided a list
of plaintiffs to the trust. It ran the names of 8,629 plaintiffs through its
database and found that 5,174 had already filed asbestos claims, probably
recovering money.

     ''That's huge,'' said Nathan A. Schachtman, a defense lawyer at the firm of
McCarter & English in Philadelphia who has defended companies in both asbestos
and silica cases. ''It's a big problem, not just for the courts,'' he said, '
'because it's difficult to get the information'' about where plaintiffs have
filed claims previously.

     The evidence of seemingly duplicate injury claims is expected to emerge at
a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing this morning on proposed legislation on
asbestos liability.

     The evidence will almost certainly be used by companies to ask for greater
protection from silica-related lawsuits, while labor advocates will argue that
blocking such suits may harm people filing legitimate cases. The evidence could
also complicate efforts to enact a law that would remove asbestos claims from
the courts.

     According to prepared testimony by Lester Brickman, a law professor at the
Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University, who will appear at today's hearing,
''As with asbestos, the tragedy of silica exposure is being transformed into an
enormous money-making machine in which baseless claims predominate.''

     Labor advocates are evidently worried that Congress will not treat the
asbestos and silica matters as separate issues.

     Dr. Laura Welch, medical director at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Center to Protect
Workers' Rights in Silver Spring, Md., who will also testify today, said that
legislation dealing with asbestos should not be expanded to limit the right to
sue as a result of exposure to other, unrelated substances.

     ''We don't want to derail what could be an important compensation bill for
asbestos disease,'' she said. ''If there are bad claims for silicosis, they
should deal with that head-on.''

     But any legislative solution to asbestos-related injury that does not deal
with the possibility of a wave of silica lawsuits does not go far enough, said
Michael E. Baroody, executive vice president of the National Association of
Manufacturers and chairman of the Asbestos Alliance Steering Committee, a
coalition of companies and associations. ''It is certainly our hope,'' he said,
''that the legislation would contain language that would make that clear and
preclude that sort of back-door return to the courts.''

     The hearing is to take place as the Bush administration is pushing for
changes in the civil justice system, for example by limiting the amount of
damages that plaintiffs in civil suits can be awarded. Evidence that claims
filed against companies that made, supplied or worked with silica may be dubious
can presumably bolster the administration's position.

     It is possible that a person could suffer from exposure to both asbestos
and silica. But such a high number of duplicate cases is implausible, Mr.
Schachtman, the corporate defense lawyer, said. Asbestos litigants who also say
they were injured by silica, he said, will have to claim ''that they didn't know
that they had an injury from silica but they already knew they had a lung injury
'' from asbestos. That is a difficult argument, he said.

     A legislative solution to the problem of asbestos liability is complicated
by the fact that some people may indeed have been harmed by both substances, as
Judge Edward R. Becker of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit pointed out last month, saying, ''That's a tough nut we've got to deal
with.''

     And there is recent evidence, unrelated to the problem of duplicate claims,
that unsupported -- even fraudulent -- claims are a serious problem. In the
lawsuit under way in Corpus Christi, Tex., doctors who had signed documents
saying that plaintiffs in the case suffered from silicosis backed away from
those conclusions when questioned under oath late last year.

     One doctor, George Martindale, a radiologist in Mobile, Ala., who reviewed
about 3,500 X-rays of potential silica claimants, said he never realized that
his findings would be used as the primary basis for lawsuits.

     ''I never thought I was going to be the diagnosing physician,'' Dr.
Martindale said in a telephone interview yesterday, adding that he thought he
was only reviewing another doctor's findings of silicosis. ''I thought I was a
second read on these films.''

     The federal district judge presiding over the silica class action, Janis
Graham Jack, characterized the situation as a ''fraudulent problem'' and has
ordered that all the doctors whose diagnoses support claims testify in her court
later this month.

     The targets of silica lawsuits have asserted for years that the cases
against them are part of a frivolous, money-making scheme for lawyers looking
for an alternative to asbestos litigation. Hundreds of thousands of people have
filed asbestos claims. That dwarfs the number of people contending that they
were hurt by exposure to silica, where reliable figures are hard to come by but
so far have been in the tens of thousands.

     Lawyers defending the companies note that the number of deaths caused by
silicosis has fallen steadily for decades -- to fewer than 200 in 1999 from
about 500 in 1980 -- but the number of suits based on contentions of harm from
the disease has risen sharply, with about 10,000 claimants in the Corpus Christi
case alone.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at a discussion last month in Clinton Township,
Mich., on changes to the civil litigation system. At far left is Lester
Brickman, a Yeshiva University law professor, who is to testify at a Senate
hearing on asbestos legislation today. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse
-- Getty Images)(pg. C1)
Edward Becker, above left, a federal appeals judge, testifying at a Senate
Judiciary hearing last month on asbestos injury, with Senator Arlen Specter,
right, presiding. Below, an excerpt from a silicosis deposition. (Photos by
Carol T. Powers for The New York Times, left
 Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg News)(pg. C10)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              129 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Conservative In Politics, Not in Lingerie

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

BODY:

   WHO knows if the Republican Babe of the Week feature on Tom Schneider's
conservative Web site will do much for the party in New Jersey?

    But with the Republicans ascendant nationally and stuck in the mud in New
Jersey, maybe Mr. Schneider is on to something with his promise to put the party
back in the Grand Old Party.

     So if the seven Republicans hoping to take on Democratic Senator Jon S.
Corzine in the race for New Jersey governor want to get some attention, here's a
hint: Don't worry about the official New Jersey Republican Party Web site
(www.njgop.org) with its earnest assemblage of position papers and dour
officeholders. Instead, check out its evil twin at www.jerseygop.com. That's
where Mr. Schneider is hoping to prove that the party of Pat Robertson and James
Dobson is also the party of lacy lingerie and bare skin, where being wrapped in
the flag takes on a whole new meaning.

    It's possible that Mr. Schneider's Web site, which is both a business and
political undertaking, is getting a half-million page views a month because of
his proposal for a New Jersey version of Newt Gingrich's Contract with America
or his recent essay, ''Secular Fundamentalism in America.''

    Well, maybe it's not possible. Mr. Schneider, who lives in Riverton, in
South Jersey, and does both online marketing and landscaping, figures that maybe
90 percent of the visitors to his site come for his Republican Babe feature,
which exists somewhere between hard-core patriotism and soft-core porn, where
state secrets meet Victoria's Secret.

    Not that all the subjects and poses are salacious. There are pundits and
politicos in prim garb with no-nonsense gazes, and the site may be the first '
'babe'' site to include a secretary of state -- Condoleezza Rice. And given that
the prototype in terms of ideology, hair color and body type seems to be Ann
Coulter -- who knew there were so many starving Republicans? -- reactions to the
feature may vary according to one's political and aesthetic views.

    There are leggy country music stars (Faith Hill, Martina McBride, Sara
Evans), beauty queens (past or present Miss South Dakota, Miss Missouri, Miss
USA), actresses (Heather Locklear, Lara Flynn Boyle, Sarah Michelle Gellar), and
a galaxy of supermodels. Eight of the fair and balanced women of Fox News are
recognized en masse for their contributions to the cause. Kirsten Andersen,
identified as a Gen X columnist in the mold of Ms. Coulter, poses with the flag
covering her seemingly bare chest. (She says she wore a bathing suit.) A few
pose brandishing pistols, others pose fetchingly in their underdrawers.

    THERE is also a ''Dude of the Week'' page. But it gets about one-tenth the
viewers as the Babes, and the honorees, like Donald H. Rumsfeld, Rush Limbaugh
and Rudolph W. Giuliani, are far less likely to strike seductive poses on satin
sheets or to have been picked for how they might look in their Speedos.

    Mr. Schneider describes himself as a former ''extreme leftist wacko'' who
was persuaded by talk radio of the error of his ways. He said he was so
disgusted by the lack of pop on the Republican site in New Jersey that he
decided to start his own.

    ''I disagree with the stereotype of Republicans as being the boardroom,
cigar-smoking, stodgy white guys,'' he said, ''and that anybody's who's
Hollywood, music industry, celebrity, anyone who's supposed to be cool is always
a leftist, liberal Democrat. So I'm trying to break down the stereotype -- if
you're young and go to parties you can still be a Republican.''

    The page might not play so well in Alabama, but in New Jersey, going up
against Mr. Corzine's money and name recognition, a tiny coolness injection
probably cannot hurt the party. So, for example, the official Republican site
links to Mr. Schneider's. Family values or no, the party chairman, Tom Wilson,
sounds unconcerned. ''If that's what he wants to do, that's what a free market
is all about,'' he said. ''I'm not going to editorialize about someone else's
Web site or make judgments if he uses pictures that show too much skin or
someone's bikini is too small.''

    As for the honorees, they seem pleased. Ms. Andersen, a 24-year-old
conservative writer, said that, fair or not, looks matter, and that if the
feature draws people to read conservative thought, more power to it. '
'Conservative women are kind of proudly non-P.C., so if your looks can draw
people to your words, why not play the game?''

    Mr. Schneider added that his wife, initially a skeptic, ended up posing for
last year's Babe of the Week calendar. He said that he didn't think there's much
in even the skimpiest garb that would give offense.

    ''We like to call them pajamas,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              130 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: The Waiter You Stiffed Has Not Forgotten

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

BODY:

   WHAT evil lurks in the hearts of waiters? Now you can find out. But can you
stomach the results?

    An anonymous New York waiter wrote online recently: ''In my fantasy, I
become Darth Vader the next time a customer asks about the wines by the glass,
then says, 'Merlot! Waiter, haven't you seen the movie ''Sideways''?' Then I
will slice off his head with my light saber.''

     Grievances, including friction between kitchen and dining room staff,
rapacious management and near-universal bitterness over tipping, are being
revealed with gusto on the Internet by restaurant staff members. As a customer,
to read Web sites like www.bitterwaitress.com, www.waiterrant.blogspot.com and
www.webfoodpros.com is to wonder nervously, ''Could they be talking about me?''

    Each month, www.stainedapron.com publishes a new extreme example of customer
obnoxiousness. (One forum is titled ''Keep Your Brats at Home!'') On
bitterwaitress.com, the most popular page is an annotated database of people who
give bad tips (defined on the site as ''any gratuity under 17 percent for
service which one's peers would judge as adequate or better''). Anyone can add a
name to the database, along with the location, restaurant, amount of the check,
amount of the tip and any details, most of which cannot be printed in a family
newspaper. (A disclaimer reads: ''We are not responsible for submissions. Uh-uh,
no way, not in the least.'') There are almost 700 entries.

    ''That stuff is childish,'' said Timothy Banning, a California chef who
often posts to www.ontherail.com, a San Francisco-based site for chefs. ''And it
makes the industry look bad.''

    But most servers say that letting off steam helps them do the job. ''It's so
important for us to have a place to vent,'' said Becky Donohue, who waits on
tables at Mickey Mantle's in Midtown and writes occasional posts at
www.girlcomic.net. ''It's amazing that more waiters don't kill people,'' she
said.

    Many in the industry protest that the rage-filled, often incoherent blogs
and posts don't represent the feelings of most restaurant staff members, And so
far only a small slice of the industry is active online. ''Unlike a lot of
people, chefs and waiters don't have computer access at work, or enough time to
fool around on the Net,'' said Bryce Lindholm, a Seattle chef and manager who
participates in a Yahoo discussion group for restaurant employees.

    But the result of these forums, say Mr. Banning, Mr. Lindholm and others, is
that the symbolic wall between the kitchen and the dining room -- the wall that
prevents customers from knowing what is done and said by waiters and cooks -- is
coming down. And how do they loathe us, the customers? Now we can count the
ways.

    ''I don't think civilians really have any idea how the staff really feels:
namely, that they just can't wait to turn the table, get their tip and see the
back of you,'' Mr. Lindholm said. ''Let's be honest.''

    Referring to restaurant customers as civilians is common, and indicative of
the siege mentality that longtime cooks and severs tend to adopt. ''I'd say
waiting tables is one of the most stressful jobs you can have, short of being a
firefighter or an inner-city police officer,'' said Bruce Griffin Henderson, a
singer-songwriter who did 10 years as a waiter in New York. ''You have no
control over anything, but you are responsible for everything. You are always
being squeezed by three immutable forces: the customer, the kitchen and the
management.''

    But recent interviews revealed some fresh irritants for the more than eight
million Americans who worked in restaurants in 2002 (the most recent year for
which figures are available according to the United States Department of Labor).
Waiters must now enforce bans on smoking, drinking by minors and cellphone use,
and are enduring an influx of Euro-rich tourists who, restaurant staff members
say, often pretend not to understand American tipping practices.

    Chefs say they are being driven mad by an ever-changing spectrum of diets,
allergies and food issues. Gillian Clark, the chef at Colorado Kitchen in
Washington, contributed thousands of words to a forum at www.washingtonpost.com
on the subject of customers who demand changes to the menu. ''I explain to them
that they are in my restaurant,'' she wrote, ''and they must have the flounder
the way I make it.''

    Ms. Clark is relatively tolerant of customers with genuine health problems,
but many bloggers reserve their most towering rages for customers with real or
imagined dietary restrictions. Last year a server at a Sizzler steakhouse in
Norco, Calif., was arrested after a fight with Atkins-dieting customers over
whether vegetables could be substituted for potatoes. Participants in online
forums reacted with understanding, though the consensus was that Jonathan
Voeltner, the server, had gone too far in following the customers and covering
their house with maple syrup, flour and instant mashed potatoes. ''Use the
forum, dude!'' one poster urged. ''Blow off the steam here.''

    According to www.waitersworld.com, one Washington restaurant customer
recently insisted that the restaurant's $10 minimum should be waived for him,
because gastric bypass surgery had rendered him unable to swallow more than a
few mouthfuls at one sitting. ''So why are you in a restaurant?'' wrote one
cook. ''WHY WHY WHY?''

    These writers are immoderate in their rages, but they do not discriminate.
They harbor contempt for tourists, New Yorkers, Southerners, Jews, Christians,
women, men, blacks, whites, American Indians. Fat people. Thin people. ''My
greatest dream is to keep a party of doctors waiting for 45 minutes,'' Mr.
Lindholm said. ''They are arrogant as customers, and besides, they keep me
waiting in their offices. Let them wait in my restaurant.''

    Serious complaints about sexism, racism, drug use, hazing and management are
common, but the servers' greatest source of rage is, of course, tipping. ''It's
the only job where your hourly wage is totally dependent on how random people
feel about you,'' Ms. Donohue said. ''How many times have you gotten bad service
at Kinko's? Do you get to dock their pay?''

    The vengefulness of the posts, and the recurrence of anecdotes that involve
adding foreign fluids to customers' food, from breast milk to laxatives, is
enough to turn anyone who dares to enter a restaurant into a nervous, toadying
wreck. Jesse Elizondo, a waiter who has worked in New York restaurants for 10
years, says that's because customers generally forget how vulnerable they are to
the good will of servers. ''I can never understand why anyone would be even the
slightest bit rude to someone who is about to touch your food,'' he said.

    Mr. Elizondo said he discovered the forums after a bad night at work on
Restaurant Row, when he went home and typed ''waiter'' and ''revenge'' into an
Internet search engine. He is amazed by the challenges that customers bring into
the dining room, he said, adding: ''The cellphones are a big problem for us. And
you wouldn't believe how many people think they can bring their own liquor, or
keep their big plastic water bottle on the table. I try to assume that people
just don't know any better, but sometimes it's impossible, especially with the
Europeans who act so sophisticated when it's time to order the wine but so
ignorant when it's time to tip the waiter.''

    Online venting has become a vigorous art form for many servers, especially
those who are waiting on tables to finance careers as writers or performers. '
'Where else can you observe human nature at its worst, night after night?'' Ms.
Donohue, a comedian, said. ''The whole system seems to invite bad behavior.''

    Rima Maamari worked her way through college at a Toronto steakhouse, and
said that she never intended to write about waitressing when she joined a
blogging circle for writers. But, she said, ''everyone was so interested in
reading about the stuff going on behind a waiter's poker face'' that her reports
from the front became her only subject. ''People feel very strongly about this
stuff, and not only waiters,'' she said. ''I got a lot of bitter e-mails from
people about how they shouldn't have to tip for bad service.'' One customer, an
ex-waiter, wrote on www.bitterwaitress.com, ''You people should QUIT WHINING or
get another job.''

    Aline Steiner, a customer who was working online at the East Village cafe
Teany last week, said she had visited some of these sites, including
www.shamelessrestaurants.com, a controversial New York-based site where
employees post anonymously with complaints about their employers.

    ''I think that as long as it's anonymous, there is no validity, and no harm
done,'' she said. ''But if they really want things to change, all of these
issues are going to have to come out somehow. People want to be aware of how
their vegetables are grown, how their chickens are killed. They should be aware
of how restaurants work.''

Log On And Go Off
Here are some of the Web sites where restaurant staff members vent:

    www.bitterwaitress.com

    www.chef2chef.net

    www.ontherail.com

    www.shamelessrestaurants.com

    www.stainedapron.com

    www.tip20.com

    www.waiterrant.blogspot.com

    www.webfoodpros.com
members.tripod.com/CastleNet/now.htm

    discuss.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/zforum/03/r--food--sietsema043003.htm


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1)Drawing
(Drawing by Robert Grossman)(pg. F6)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              131 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Class-Action Lawsuits

BODY:

   Tort reform is in the eye of the beholder. In the name of reforming the
nation's civil justice system, and with scant public debate, President Bush and
Congressional Republicans are racing to reward wealthy business supporters by
changing the rules for class-action lawsuits. Their real objective is to dilute
the impact of strong state laws protecting consumers and the environment and to
make it harder for Americans to win redress in court when they are harmed by bad
corporate behavior.

    The proposed legislation, the so-called Class Action Fairness Act, will be
taken up by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday, with a vote by the full
chamber expected as early as next week. Under the bill's sweeping provisions,
nearly all major class-action lawsuits would be moved from state courts to
already stretched federal courts. New procedural hurdles and backlogs would be
destined to delay or deny justice in many cases, and to discourage plaintiffs
and plaintiffs' lawyers from pursuing legitimate claims in the first place.

    The proposed lunge to federal courts is so extreme that cases would be
removed to federal courts even when a vast majority of the plaintiffs were from
one state, the claimed injuries occurred in the state and involved possible
violations of state law, and the principal defendant had a headquarters
elsewhere but did substantial business in the state.

    In a revealing but disappointing move last year, the measure's proponents
rejected a balanced compromise that would have broadened federal jurisdiction
while preserving the role of state courts in cases that are more local than
national in flavor. Despite some useful provisions aimed at genuine abuses, the
bill would reduce the accountability of corporations that violate laws
protecting employees, consumers and the environment.

    The measure died in the Senate at the close of the last session. But with
President Bush now actively campaigning for its passage, the juggernaut may be
unstoppable, particularly since some key Democrats, like Senators Charles
Schumer of New York and Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, switched sides last
year to back the bill in exchange for some modest revisions. The new Judiciary
Committee chairman, Senator Arlen Specter, should at least be willing to
entertain a handful of improving amendments. The most crucial would fix the bill
's Catch-22: plaintiffs filing class-action suits could be refused a hearing in
state court if they came from several different states, and then bounced out of
federal court because their complaint called for applying the laws of multiple
states.

    The ability of ordinary citizens with similar injuries to band together to
take on powerful corporate interests by utilizing the mechanism of class-action
lawsuits is one of the shining aspects of the nation's civil justice system.
That reality tends to be overlooked amid all the overwrought spinning by the
president and others who are trying to drum up concern about a litigation '
'crisis'' and to pressure Congress to usurp proper state authority and weaken
important protections for ordinary Americans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              132 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Man Stabbed By Hidden Sword

BYLINE: By Robert F. Worth (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

BODY:

   A 75-year-old man, apparently blocked by another man on an East Village
sidewalk, was arrested yesterday after he unsheathed a sword hidden inside a
cane and stabbed the other man in the jugular vein, the police said.

   The victim, whose name was not released, was in critical but stable condition
yesterday at Bellevue Hospital Center. The suspect, Eugene Carlson, was charged
with first-degree assault and criminal possession of a weapon. The police said
the attack occurred about 1:30 p.m. when Mr. Carlson was walking on Ninth Street
between Avenues B and C.   Robert F. Worth (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              133 of 182 DOCUMENTS

         Copyright 2005 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.
                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: TRAVEL; General

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Naked men, country music and French connections

BODY:

   There are, as Aussie Brian Thacker has discovered, a lot of wonderful, weird
and downright whacky festivals out there. If you search the internet you'll find
at least one being promoted somewhere in the world every day of the year. To
gather the material for this book he went to a dozen of them in Australia,
Japan, the United States, Vietnam, Haiti and Scotland. The result is an
entertaining - and at times laugh-out-loud funny - sampling of events. Many,
such as Japan's Naked Man Festival, which gives the book its name, are ancient
ceremonies with quasi-religious origins. That particular event involves 10,000
men wearing only a nappy-like garment, in freezing weather, fighting to carry a
symbolic stick across the thresholds of a Buddhist temple. Some festivals
celebrate different aspects of human endeavour, such as the Tamworth Country
Music Festival, a surprisingly cheerful occasion given its focus on musical
misery, or Sydney's Mardi Gras, a spectacular gay and lesbian sexual statement.
More are made up to capture tourist dollars, such as the UFO Festival in New
Mexico, where Thacker chatted with lots of folks who have been kidnapped by
aliens. My favourite is the Tomato Festival Thacker went to in Ripley,
Tennessee, where locals give thanks for the produce on which their lives depend.
It's an event so unspoiled that the presence of someone from Australia became
headline news. Unfortunately now it's been written up the festival has probably
lost its innocence. But if you dive into the internet you'll find there's plenty
more where that came from. A Year in the Merde

   By Stephen Clarke

   Random House, $26.95 Why do the English love poking fun at the French?
Whatever the reason A Year in the Merde is a very funny send-up of an entente
that is often not so cordial. Supposedly based on author Stephen Clarke's
experiences working in Paris for a year, the book features a character called
Paul who is hired to start a string of cafes. From the start he finds himself in
the merde with his inability to speak the language, or deal with colleagues and
French girls. In his search for both l'amour and lodgings our hero visits most
of the city's 20 arondissments and discovers the beauty and history of Paris. It
's not really a travel yarn but it does offer an idea of life as a foreigner
living in Paris ... plus a few chuckles at the expense of the French.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              134 of 182 DOCUMENTS

         Copyright 2005 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.
                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Sideswipe

BODY:

   * * * Richard Poore of St Heliers Bay is amused to note despite the
increasing quantities of quality wines that have screwcaps, all of the local BYO
restaurants he frequents still charge "corkage". "Given the minimal effort
required to open a screwcap compared with the traditional method of pulling a
cork, should they not be listing this on the account as 'screwage'?" * * * This
would clinch the deal for any prospective tourist ... "Four Seasons Motor Lodge
is ideally located close to Tahunanui Beach and just five minutes' drive to
Nelson town centre. Tahunanui township has many quality restaurants including
McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken." * * * A reader feels it's her civic duty
to warn anyone thinking of changing their name upon marriage of one of the
costly consequences. "If you think you have not had enough stress as you
approach your big day, consider this. If you intend to ring up our old friend
Telecom to get your surname changed, it will do so with a smile. It will give
you a new account number and tell you sweetly, 'Everything is all sorted!
Congratulations on your marriage'. My first wedding gift arrived in the form of
a $45 charge on my bill for a 'Line connection' fee although no lines were
disconnected or connected on my end and I still have the same phone number. I
need to pay for the the inability of Telecom's flawed billing system to alter an
account holder's name." * * * Toot! Toot! Lawyers get on the class-action gravy
train: In Oregon, the six lawyers who helped 83 Wal-Mart workers win about
US$2500 ($3518) each for being improperly denied overtime pay asked the judge
for fees totalling US$2.57 million ($3.6 million), more than 12 times the
clients' winnings. (Source: News of the Weird) * * * Not Neighbourly #5: "A few
years ago, our neighbour, frustrated at someone leaving tread marks on the grass
verge while using his driveway as a turning bay, got his gardener to bury a
balloon filled with housepaint under the grass. The offending car (which usually
parked further up the road) duly squashed the balloon, leaving some paint on the
side of the car (it was an old car anyway) and a dirty great streak of
housepaint up the street. So in order to stop the odd tyre mark on the grass
verge, this idiot's cunning plan leaves house paint smeared all over the road.
Thank you Mr Neat and Tidy."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              135 of 182 DOCUMENTS

         Copyright 2005 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.
                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; General

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Snoop Dogg accused of rape

BODY:

   The complaint was filed at Los Angeles Superior Court just weeks after Snoop
Dogg (Calvin Broadus) filed a pre-emptive lawsuit claiming he was the target of
an extortion scheme hatched by the woman in question. Legal documents name ABC
News, the Jimmy Kimmel Live show and the Walt Disney Company as defendants,
alleging the network is partly liable for the attack because the entertainer's
dressing-room was stocked with "large quantities" of champagne and marijuana.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              136 of 182 DOCUMENTS

         Copyright 2005 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.
                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Mob boss betrayed by his own

BODY:

   Basciano, who took his street name from his Bronx beauty salon, turned to his
family, smiled and appeared to mime a noose jerking around his neck as lawyers
discussed the possibility that he could face a death sentence if convicted. The
new murder count against Basciano was filed after imprisoned boss Joseph Massino
secretly recorded him in jail discussing the slaying of a mob associate and a
plan to kill a federal prosecutor, according to an indictment unsealed last
week.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              137 of 182 DOCUMENTS

         Copyright 2005 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.
                             The New Zealand Herald

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 21 words

HEADLINE: Murder accused held

BODY:

   The man, who has interim name suppression, is accused of murdering Natasha
Hayden, 24, at McLaren Falls Park on January 10.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              138 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                 Copyright 2005 New Zealand Press Association
                         New Zealand Press Association

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: MAN FACING MURDER CHARGE LOSES BID FOR BAIL

BODY:



   Tauranga, Feb 2 - A 25-year-old unemployed Tauranga man yesterday lost a bid
in Tauranga District Court to be granted bail while facing a murder charge.

   The charge relates to the finding of Natasha Bridget Hayden's body on January
10.

   Her body was found at about 1pm at McLaren Falls Park in the Kaimai Range.

   Judge Thomas Ingram granted the man interim name suppression until he appears
in court again on February 8.

   NZPA BOP jaf gs

JOURNAL-CODE: WNZA

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              139 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Prime news; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Surveillance mounted in hunt for murder suspects

BODY:

   KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - Policemen in unmarked cars mounted surveillance in
several areas in the Klang Valley in their hunt for the two men wanted for
the killing of Muhamad Nazri Ismail in a road rage incident.

   The areas included a housing estate in Taman Supreme in Cheras, a police
source said today.

   Police have identified the suspects and have their mugshots.

   They have recorded statements from two family members of one of the
suspects.

   The Perodua Kelisa driven by one of the men is registered under the name
of one of the two women whose statements were recorded yesterday.

   It is believed the women are the suspect's mother and sister who reside
in Shah Alam.

   Police are confident of arresting the two men in their 20s soon.

   Based on evidence provided by an eyewitness, police are not ruling out
the possibility that Muhamad Nazri, 28, an engineer and a Cheras Umno
Youth member, might have cut in front of the two men in the Perodua Kelisa
along the Federal Highway on Jan 25.

   This might have angered the other party who then tailed him, a source
said.

   What followed was a minor accident involving the two vehicles.

   It is believed that Muhamad Nazri, who was alone in the car, and the two
men had driven to the side of the road near Persiaran Kewajipan to square
off. The argument got out of hand and he was bludgeoned with a steering
lock.

   The source said investigations revealed that the men, who are car
repossessors, were not trying to repossess Muhamad Nazri's Proton Wira.

   It was earlier reported that the attack was believed to have been
triggered by an attempt by the two men to repossess the car for default of
payment.

   "Our investigations showed that the bank where Muhamad Nazri took his
car loan did not issue a repossession order," said the source.

   An eyewitness alerted the police and a patrol car was rushed to the
scene of the Jan 25 incident.

   Muhamad Nazri was lying unconscious beside his brown Proton Wira, with a
five-centimetre long gash on the head.

   Police also found a blood-stained steering lock.

   He died in hospital 17 hours later without regaining consciousness.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              140 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Prime news; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: CCM action against 57pc of registered companies

BODY:

   KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - As many as 338,097 registered companies have been
issued with compound notices or charged in court for violating the
Companies Act 1965.

   This makes up about 57 per cent of the 681,871 companies registered with
the Companies Commission of Malaysia (CCM) up to Dec 31 last year.

   Among the violations were failure to hold annual general meetings,
produce annual statements, produce financial statements and display their
company name or business on signboards.

   CCM chief executive officer Abdul Alim Abdullah said its officers had
discovered this in a series of operations it conducted.

   "This time, no one will be let off the hook as we are not going to issue
any more warning notices. We will issue the offending companies with
compound notices or charge them in court."

   Alim said the large-scale operations were also designed to increase the
rate of corporate compliance to 60 per cent.

   "Although we had a corporate compliance rate of only 43 per cent in
2003, we expect a slight increase in 2004, based on the latest data," he
said, adding the actual rate would only be confirmed next month.

   He added that the rate of corporate compliance in the United Kingdom and
Australia was 98 per cent.

   On Ops Kompaun, which was held throughout last year, Alim said 17,337
compound notices were issued and 8,472 were settled.

   In the same period, 2,970 cases were filed in court, compared to 951
cases in the year before. Besides that, 71,000 outstanding compound
notices involving RM14 million have yet to be settled.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              141 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Letters; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Sue them

BYLINE: V.R.K.

BODY:

   I FULLY agree with the contention as reported in the NST (Jan 30) that
even if the officers who raided and imprisoned 100 youths without any
respect for them were legally right in doing so, they should have done it
the right way.

   I must also applaud the Cabinet acting decisively on this matter and
speaking out against these excesses and urging those responsible to
concentrate on more critical matters facing the nation.

   I sincerely hope those parents whose children have been detained in this
manner would sue those officers individually for abusing their position
and bringing the good name of our country into disrepute.

   V.R.K.
Petaling Jaya


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              142 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Sport; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Penang edge Telekom

BODY:

   ONLY one goal separated Penang and Malacca Telekom, but it was enough to
ensure the islanders remained at the top of the Malaysia Super League
after they downed the club side 1-0 at the Hang Jebat Stadium in Alor
Gajah, Malacca last night.

   Penang, who chalked up an impressive 3-0 win over Sabah in their opening
match, had Viatcheslav Melnikov to thank as his 41st minute strike was
enough to give the islanders full points.

   Telekom, who are making their Super League debut, were hardly given
breathing space as Penang dominated the exchanges early on.

   Penang's goal was created by Japanese import Ito Dan who gave the
Telekom defenders the slip and put the ball through for a simple tap in
from Melnikov.

   In fact, Melnikov could have opened accounts four minutes earlier but
after dribbling past three defenders, the Russian's stiff shot was well
saved by Telekom custodian Zainal Rabin.

   At the other end, Telekom strikers Khairulzal Azmi Zainudin and import
Koffi Quassy Edward gave Penang some anxious moments but failed to get
their names on the board.

   Edward had a golden opportunity to put Telekom in front in the 27th
minute but with only Penang goalkeeper Azuan Othman to beat, shot wide.

   After the breather, Telekom stepped up the tempo but Irfan Bakti's men
simply couldn't find a way to breach the Penang goal.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              143 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Letters; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Jawi action beyond the bounds of human dignity

BYLINE: Mohd Ghazali Osman

BODY:

   THE recent detention of Muslim nightclub patrons and the subsequent abuses
by the Federal Territory Religious Department (Jawi) officers, especially
on the women detainees, has made it important for the relevant authorities
to make sure such incidents do not occur again in the name of Islam.

   What the officers did was very un-Islamic.

   Their action went beyond the bounds of human dignity.

   I think the inclusion of women officers in raiding parties is a good
idea. But, all the same, I have my reservations.

   If the male officers can behave so poorly as so-called defenders of
Islam, then there is no telling what the women officers can do to the
detainees. What is most important here is that all raids must have legal
status and that the police must be present during these raids.

   The detainees must not be abused. Like all citizens of Malaysia they
have legal rights like anybody else. They cannot be punished under two
laws, one civil and the other Syariah.

   That would be most unfair. The detainees must have access to legal
assistance and must be allowed to contact their parents to inform them of
their predicament.

   The relevant authorities must look seriously into this matter before it
gets out of hand.

   What the KL Religious Department did was so un-Islamic that it is
worrying to know that such people are given the task to uphold the good
name of Islam.

   They are the ones who need counselling and the whole institution must be
totally revamped.

   MOHD GHAZALI OSMAN
Ipoh


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              144 of 182 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2005 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Courting with letters

BYLINE: Shukor Rahman

BODY:

   LOVE letters may have gone out of fashion these days, but they were the
norm in Britain 200 years ago. SHUKOR RAHMAN looks at that bygone age.

   THANKS to the mobile phone and the Internet, young Malaysians prefer to
communicate via SMS or e-mail instead of write conventional love letters.

   "Most find it too tedious to sit down and write a letter, post it, and
wait several days or weeks for a reply," said student Alina Abdul Shukor,
18, of the Penang Matriculation College in Kepala Batas, Seberang Prai.

   Bayan Lepas factory manager Rocky Chang said: "It's a safe bet that
there are less love letters being sent today by post compared with a few
years ago."

   Therefore, young Malaysians may find the courting style of Britons 200
years ago hard to believe but truth, as they say, is often stranger than
fiction.

   In those days, Britons tended to be rather indirect in matters of
courtship and matrimony, and many resorted to correspondence instead of
applying the direct approach.

   There were then quite a few six-penny letter-writing guides such as one
for Ladies and Gentlemen, The Lovers Correspondent, The Companion Letter
Writer and The Correct Guide to Letter Writing - all offering a guide to
correspondence "on all matters relating to courtship and matrimony".

   Take this example of correspondence from a man to a woman whom he has
seen but once:

   "Madam, prompted by an impulse which I cannot control, and impelled
onward by a passion which overwhelms every other consideration, I have
dared to address you with the hope faint, yet deathless, that Fortune,
which sometimes seconds a desperate resolve, may thus favour me.

   "I acknowledge that, previous to yesterday, my eyes had never beheld
you; but no sooner did you flash across my path than I felt enchained,
enraptured and experienced an instantaneous and vivid impression to which
I had hitherto been a stranger.

   "I could not remain easy a moment longer without ascertaining your name
and address. To accomplish this, I had the boldness to follow your
footsteps, and for this and subsequent acts of temerity, I seek your
pardon, and implore you to overlook the offence for the sentiment which
occasioned it.

   "In every case where two hearts are concerned, affection has had its
birth in some instantaneous impression or sudden impulse. Esteem, respect
and regard, which accompany the tender passion, follow afterwards.

   "I trust, therefore, madam, that although this communication emanates
from one to whom you are unknown, you will not conceive it to be wholly
undeserving of notice; but that you may be induced to hold out some hope,
however slight, and to favour me with a few words of reply, from which I
may extract hope to animate me, and encouragement to persevere."

   A favourable reply may sound like this:

   "Sir, I scarcely know whether I am acting rightly in answering your
communication, and I certainly should not have done so, but for the
respectful and apparently earnest tone in which you have addressed me.

   "You must not, however, misinterpret this concession as giving you my
immediate encouragement. I am living here under the care of my aunt; to
her I have shown your letter, and she bids me say that if you think proper
to call and see her any evening, she will give you a hearing.

   "My subsequent determination will, in a great measure, depend upon the
counsel I shall receive, joined to my own feelings and inclination. Beyond
this, I cannot for the present say more."

   An unfavourable reply, however, may be rather abrupt:

   "Sir, to your extraordinary letter I have nothing to reply, beyond
informing you that such communications are most unacceptable, and I beg
that all further correspondence may cease."

   Or how about this letter from a woman, enclosing her portrait, to a man:

   "Dear Mr ____ , in answer to your repeated requests that I would send
you my portrait, I have at length been induced to enclose the semblance of
my unworthy self.

   "If, as you have often assured me, the possession of so insignificant a
token will afford you happiness, I trust that in moments of bitterness and
trial, one glance of the counterfeit will suffice to assure you that the
original sympathises with you; and when you are prospering, you may detect
in these lineaments an expression of kindred pleasure and gratification
suggestive of the regard felt for you."

   A man may also write to the father or mother of a young woman he is
interested in. A father's disapproving answer may read:

   "Sir, I regret that the painful task devolves upon me of returning an
answer to your communication which may, for the moment, occasion you some
disappointment.

   "I have not one word to urge against your character, which I believe to
be an estimable one, nor do I for a moment question your present position
or your future prospects; but I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that your
youth and inexperience unfit you at present for the duties and
responsibilities of married life. I am also an enemy to protracted
courtship, and therefore, I must beg to decline the honour you propose.

   "How far I might be induced to reconsider my determination at some
future time it would be premature at present to say; nor do I think it
desirable, either for my daughter's welfare or your own, that any compact
or pledge should be imposed which both of you might hereafter regret
having entered into." There is also some help for a man accusing his love
of flirting:

   "Dear Miss _____ , it would be impossible for me to express in adequate
terms the pain to which you are continually putting me by practising what
I take the liberty of describing as undue freedom with others.

   "There is seldom an occasion which brings us together that is not
rendered most unhappy by your persistently attracting the attention of a
crowd of socalled admirers with suggestive looks, words and gestures; your
humble servant in the meantime being shut out from the circle as unworthy
of your notice - an object of pity to those of better feeling, and a thing
of scorn for the heartless.

   "You will not, I hope, be offended with me in daring to address you thus
plainly. You are too sacred in my eyes to be made the mere sport of
lisping courtiers, and I esteem your favourable opinion too highly to
suffer even the semblance of it to be diverted from me to others."

   The Lover's Letter Writer provides several other model letters, such as
from a tradesman to a woman, from a young professional man to a woman,
from a military officer ordered on foreign service, from a man to a woman
by whom he has been previously rejected, from a widower to a widow with
proposals of marriage, from a man who has suffered a reverse of fortune,
from a young woman to a friend pleading on her brother's behalf, from a
woman to a negligent correspondent, and from a man apologising for unjust
suspicions and rude conduct.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              145 of 182 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright 2005 The Christchurch Press Company Limited
                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS Pg. 3

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: NZ backs sanctions against Sudan

BODY:

   New Zealand, Canada and Australia have urged the United Nations Security
Council to impose sanctions on perpetrators of atrocities in Darfur, Sudan,
according to a letter released yesterday.

   They wrote ahead of a UN report this week that will conclude crimes against
humanity took place in Darfur but will not call it genocide, as the United
States has done.

   The report by a five-member legal commission includes names of perpetrators
of atrocities among government-backed militia blamed for killings, pillaging and
rape, as well as rebels and possibly Sudanese officials. About 70,000 people
have died and 1.8 million are homeless.

   But the report would not conclude there was genocide, Sudan's Foreign
Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail said in Abuja, Nigeria.

   Genocide is legally defined by an international convention as the "intent to
destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group".

   But the convention has a high threshold on what constitutes genocide and the
report will probably conclude that Khartoum did not intend to exterminate a
group.

   The three nations said the council should look at "targeted measures" that
could include travel bans and an assets freeze. The US is preparing a resolution
to this effect but Russia and China oppose penalties on Khartoum.

   The letter also said that the council should refer cases to the International
Criminal Court (ICC) should the report conclude serious crimes had occurred. The
US vigorously opposes the tribunal.

   But the report is expected to include several recommendations, one of which
is that the Sudan crisis be referred to the ICC.

   The United States prefers using facilities of an ad hoc tribunal in Tanzania,
set up to try suspects of the 1994 Rwanda genocide, for suspects in Darfur.
Europeans and others strongly oppose this solution as duplication of an existing
court.

   The new Hague-based ICC is the first permanent global criminal court to try
individuals for genocide, war crimes and massive human rights abuses. But it can
only prosecute when national governments fail to do so.

   --Reuters

   Abuse accusations -- B4

   ---------------

   CAPTION:

   Young victim: a Sudanese child at Kassab refugee camp in Darfur. Photo:
Andrew Macalister

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              146 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                            South China Morning Post

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Gong Li's husband wins libel case

BODY:


    Polly Hui

    A Hong Kong magazine has been ordered to pay the husband of China's most
famous film actress, Gong Li, $ 200,000 in damages for an article that claimed
he was living off her income.

    But the amount was one dollar less than the original offer made by the
defendant, Sudden Weekly, in an attempt to settle the case out of court.

    Businessman Ooi Hoe Seong was not present when the verdict was given in the
Court of First Instance by a six-member jury last night after seven hours of
deliberation.

    Mr Ooi told the court the magazine ran an article in December 2002 alleging
he was at a low point in his career, forcing his wife to take on more movies and
commercial shoots.

    He also said he had been "downgraded to a criminal" by the article, which
falsely claimed that he was involved in illegal tobacco trading on the mainland.

    The Sudden Weekly report had been picked up by two major Singaporean
newspapers.

    Mr Ooi said he, his wife and his parents felt humiliated and angry about the
article. He claimed that his business had also been adversely affected.

    He had sought damages for libel from the publisher and the editor-in-chief
Chiu Wai-kin.

    Sudden Weekly Limited paid $ 200,001 to the court last November - a dollar
more than the compensation awarded yesterday - in a bid to reach an out-of
-court settlement.

    It paid a further $ 300,000 to the court in December.

    Judge Andrew To Kwai-fung said he would order that $ 300,001 be returned to
the magazine.

    Jason Pow, counsel for Mr Ooi, refused to comment on the compensation. But
he said his client's main reason for taking the case to court was to "clear his
name".

    Judge To thanked the jury and said the case was interesting, involving as it
did celebrities and international stars.


   LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              147 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                            South China Morning Post

                                February 2, 2005

SECTION: Business; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 609 words

BODY:


    loyalty and praise no assurance

    of gaining hsbc credit card

    HSBC has bitten the hand that types its name in praise.

    Through good times and bad, millionaire investor and columnist Tony Measor
has recommended HSBC's stock in his Quam Net newsletter and weekly Next Magazine
columns. He has also banked with the bank for 50 years, maintaining two premium
accounts there.

    So it came as a surprise when his application for an HSBC credit card was
rejected.

    "I have been rather amused, but also slightly offended by HSBC , where
obviously there is no responsible officer vetting their correspondence," Mr
Measor told Lai See.

    yet more torment tipped for tung

    CLSA's annual Feng Shui Index has become as much a political indicator as an
economic one, with the investment bank also asking its geomancers for insight
into the future fortunes of local politicians.

    Their Year of the Monkey predictions rightly tipped good fortune for Chief
Executive Tung Chee-hwa - shares in his family flagship, OOIL, finished the year
up 30 per cent.

    More questionable was the soothsayers' expectation of less political
pressure for our embattled chief executive, although that may have come to pass
if not for his government's Link Reit stumble at the final hurdle.

    In this coming Year of the Rooster, feng shui master Chris Zee again
predicts less-interesting times for Mr Tung.

    More surprising is who will be joining him on the sidelines:
protester-turned -legislator "Long Hair" Leung Kwok-hung, whose possible clash
with the Lunar God (Tai Shui) heralds less luck and less exposure for everybody
's favourite dial-a-public-disturbance. Exposure, of course, is Mr Leung's real
currency.

    Long Hair, by the way, was born in the Year of the Monkey, which could
explain his gift for showmanship.

    tycoons buttered up

    CLSA's feng shui gimmick, of course, is not getting any fresher as the years
roll by. But Lai See reckons it serves some useful purposes, such as buttering
up tycoons.

    For example, CLSA maintained a negative view on Hutchison Whampoa for far
longer than many of its peers last year.

    But, when doffing their analysts' hats and donning their feng shui garb,
CLSA's analysts can flatter those they normally skewer.

    Hong Kong research head noted that Hutchison boss Li Ka-shing and son Victor
Li Tzar-kuoi, both born in the Year of the Dragon, should do well in a rooster
year.

    what bonuses?

    It has been a fat year at many brokerages, with multinational giants paying
some of their traders 10-year bonuses.

    Alas, it is a different story at the mainland's top three brokerages -
Haitong Securities, Shenyin Wanguo and Guotai Junan - which reported accumulated
losses of 6.5 billion yuan as of the end of last year.

    We called a contact at Shenyin Wanguo Securities to ask about bonuses there.

    The response: "What bonuses?"

    heliport dream

    If Richard Li Tzar-kai can have his Pokfulam Cyberport, why can't CLP boss
and hotel tycoon Michael Kadoorie have his Wan Chai heliport?

    Mr Kadoorie took the heliport proposal before the legislators on Monday on
behalf of the Hong Kong Regional Heliport Working Group.

    He articulated the organisation's dream of three-hour overland journeys into
the Pearl River Delta shortened to 15-minute helicopter rides.

    Mr Kadoorie already boasts a rare roof-top heliport at his Peninsula hotel.

    And just as property is helping prop up Mr Li's PCCW, another landing pad
across that ever narrower body of water also known as Hong Kong's Victoria
Harbour might help make up for any reduction in CLP's scheme of control
-mandated returns.


   LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              148 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
                       Copyright 2005 The Statesman Ltd
                             The Statesman (India)

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: ACHARYA FILES ANTICIPATORY BAIL PLEA

BODY:



   CHENNAI, Feb. 1. - The Kanchi Sankaracharya, today filed an application
seeking anticipatory bail in the case relating to tampering with records of the
Mutt's accounts.

   In his application, the Acharya feared he 'would be maliciously and falsely
involved' in the case since he had obtained bail in two other cases, including
the Sankararaman murder case. The Acharya's first anticipatory bail in the
assault against Thirukottiyur Madhavan, a temple priest, is already pending in
the session courts at Chennai. The junior Acharya, Vijayendra Saraswathi, today
filed an application in Madras High Court seeking bail in the Sankararaman
murder case. Madras HC today reserved orders on a petition filed by the Kanchi
Mutt for a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to permit it to operate
various bank accounts in its name, which had been frozen, adds PTI. - SNS

JOURNAL-CODE: FSTN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              149 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Prime News

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Horror crime student gets 15 years' jail;
Man from S'pore put woman who rejected advances in Canada through 'brutal'
ordeal

BYLINE: Benjamin Ho

BODY:

   AN ECONOMICS undergraduate from Singapore at the University of Toronto has
been jailed for 15 years in Canada for abducting, sexually assaulting and
stabbing a Chinese national, whom he left to die in the woods.

   Canadian resident Chan Seng Tan, 35, sat passively in the dock on Monday, as
a provincial court judge in Toronto passed sentence.

   The judge described Chan's crimes as 'brutal, terrorising and horrific', the
daily Toronto Sun reported.

   Chan had admitted multiple charges of forcible confinement, sexual assault,
attempted murder, robbery and possession of stolen property.

   He will now serve about 13 years and 11 months more in jail - he received
double credit for the 196 days he has been in custody in various Toronto
detention centres.

   His name will also be added to the national sex offenders' registry, where it
will remain for life.

   On July 17 last year, Chan helped 21-year-old student Li You You, who knew
him through his girlfriend, move out of her former boyfriend's apartment in
suburban Toronto.

   Chan took the opportunity to ask her to live with him instead. When Ms Li
refused, he became angry and threatened her with a knife.

   Then, in broad daylight, he bundled her into her car and drove 250km to a
deserted area in Bancroft where he sexually assaulted her and stabbed her
several times, hurting her right lung, and slit her throat. He then dumped her
in the bushes and took off in her car.

   Ms Li managed to crawl out and flag down a motorist who took her to a nearby
hospital.

   The report in the Toronto Sun yesterday says Ms Li was on the brink of death,
'bleeding profusely, eaten alive by mosquitoes', but she survived.

   Chan turned himself in two days later, when his girlfriend told him the
police were looking for him.

   He is believed to have a family in Singapore, but no further details are
available. Chan's lawyer, Mr Peter Scully, told The Straits Times yesterday that
none of his relatives were in court.

   On Monday, Chan's guilty plea was officially recognised and a letter written
by him was read out in court by Mr Scully, the Toronto Sun reported.

   In it, Chan begins by saying his attitude had to change.

   'I can walk around... kicking furniture, crying the blues, whining, but that
's not going to get me anywhere, so I choose not to be that way because I might
get killed or punched out tomorrow.'

   Only at the end of his two-page letter did Chan admit responsibility, denying
however that he had planned his actions.

   'I wish that it would never have happened, but it just happened,' he wrote.

   'I am very sorry to put the victim through the entire ordeal,' he continued,
ending with: 'I am willing to serve my sentence... I am very sorry.'

   Chan could have been sentenced to a maximum of 25 years' jail, but the judge
took into account his remorse and sentenced him to 15 years, a request made in
December by the prosecution.

   Mr Scully also conceded that the punishment was a reflection of the
seriousness of Chan's offences, the Toronto Sun reported.

   'The sentence reflects the gravity of the offences, at least to the extent
that any sentence can accurately reflect society's abhorrence for what was done,
' he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              150 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Singapore

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Coke bust: High-profile ex-technopreneur jailed a year

BYLINE: Selina Lum Grace Chng

BODY:

   FORMER pop musician and rising star of the mobile telecom world Dinesh Singh
Bhatia was yesterday sentenced to 12 months' jail for taking cocaine, after the
judge rejected his lawyer's plea for a lighter penalty.

   Bhatia became the seventh person arrested in last year's high-profile drug
bust to be jailed.

   The 35-year-old private equity investor, smartly dressed in a grey suit, was
calm and expressionless when District Judge F. G. Remedios handed down the
sentence.

   Bhatia's mother, orthopaedic surgeon and former Nominated Member of
Parliament, Dr Kanwaljit Soin, appeared on the brink of tears, but remained
composed as she hugged her son's Swedish fiancee, Ms Katarina Scheele.

   A dozen other friends and relatives were in the public gallery though Bhatia
's father, former judicial commissioner Amarjeet Singh, was absent.

   Bhatia was picked up by Central Narcotics Bureau officers in the car park of
his condominium in Arcadia Road shortly after 5pm on Oct 7 last year.

   He pleaded guilty on Jan 19 to one charge of consuming cocaine. A second
charge of consuming Ecstasy was taken into consideration.

   The jail term completes a dramatic fall from grace for the unconventional
former 'technopreneur'.

   Friends and business partners describe Bhatia as a gifted thinker and
innovator, who was never content to rest on his achievements or conform to
social norms.

   His talent for undermining expectations was typified by his decision to join
local rock band Kick! after completing postgraduate studies in London.

   The self-confessed 'stimulus junkie' left the band in 1996 to form The Edge
Consultants, which later became Edgematrix, a pioneer in mobile Internet
services.

   A rapid rise followed. Within a few years, the company had offices in
Malaysia, Taiwan, Australia and Thailand and employed more than 200 staff.
Boasting big-name clients such as British Airways and Suntec City, Bhatia was
reported to be earning around $300,000 a year in 2000.

   The following year, as well as making it onto The Business Times Enterprise
50 list, the now defunct Asiaweek magazine listed him as one of Asia's 25
'young, wired and rich' personalities. Singapore Tatler magazine named him its
most eligible bachelor and the Singapore Computer Society made him Young IT
Professional of 2001.

   The dotcom downturn, though, hit Edgematrix hard. By November 2001, the
company had laid off 150 staff. The next month, it was sold off to construction
firm Twinwood for $1. By November 2002, Edgematrix had been liquidated.

   Bhatia's high profile did not keep him out of jail, though, despite the best
efforts of his lawyer, Senior Counsel K. Shanmugam, who urged the court to
impose a heavy fine instead.

   Mr Shanmugam argued that Bhatia had been subjected to negative publicity and
would have to endure embarrassment for a considerable time.

   But in his oral judgment, the district judge said he could not deviate from
the benchmark of 12 to 18 months' jail Singapore courts have always imposed for
drug offences, unless the circumstances warranted it.

   'A relaxation in sentences imposed will give a wrong signal about the
unending need to ensure that the problem, if it cannot be completely wiped out,
then, at best, never escalates,' he said.

   Mr Shanmugam asked for Bhatia's sentence to begin next Monday. The judge
agreed and granted a request from Deputy Public Prosecutor Jason Chan to double
his bail to $20,000.

   Bhatia was ordered to surrender himself to the court by noon on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              151 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Singapore

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Lively Exchanges;
What happens when Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, 81, founding prime minister of
Singapore, meets a roomful of students in their 20s? Differences of views,
lively exchanges, laughter.  Below are excerpts from some exchanges at the NUS
Kent Ridge ministerial forum on Monday

BODY:

   A chance for everyone

   Student: Singaporeans have the tendency to not regard Singapore as home. We
lack that sense of ownership.

   At best we tend to see Singapore as a comfortable hotel and, at worst, it's
even a prison that people don't have money and resources and the talent to take
off from.

   MM Lee: What makes you feel you don't own this place?

   Student: I do. It's just the impression I have from talking to people...

   MM: Once you say you feel you own this place, then I'm prepared to say all
right. Can you give me one friend who tells you that he feels...

   Student: I've spoken to many taxi drivers and they come from various walks of
life, aside from other people.

   MM: What do you think will give those friends of yours who do not feel they
own this place a sense of ownership? You tell me.

   Student: I don't know. That's why I was hoping that you could say something
on this.

   MM: You're describing to me a malady which I do not know exists, which has
been talked about.

   The chattering classes talk about this, we want ownership. How do you get
ownership?

   Make all the decisions. Every decision, we are part of it...

   This is a phase Singapore is going through because a younger generation feels
that they are entitled to a bigger space...to be in charge. They will be in
charge, but only some of them will be in charge. Not everybody. But everybody
will have a chance to give his input.

   Stability doesn't come easy

   Student: My name is Jamie Han, history honours student.

   I'm not questioning your decisions in the past, I'm sure at those times,
there was a need for consensus and stability. But I think we have come to the
stage where stability is already here and that, in order to progress, the
minority viewpoints have to be heard.

   And I'm not saying that the People's Action Party is corrupt or anything now.

   The truth of the matter is this: No matter how enlightened a despot is,
ultimately, he'll turn into a tyrant if there are no checks and balances in
place.

   MM Lee: There's nothing to prevent you from advocating that, pushing that
strenuously and finally getting a political party to adopt your platform, and we
will put it to the vote. That's the democratic way of doing it.

   I would beg to express my reservation that we have established unity and
therefore all is well. You do not, maybe you do not realise how sensitive and
how fragile some of this apparent unity could be...

   (MM Lee talks about the 1964 race riots, the Jemaah Islamiah plot to blow up
seven bombs in Singapore around 2001 which was disrupted, making the point that
fault lines exist in Singapore society.)

   Please do not assume that what you see as stability is something we can take
for granted. It has to be worked for, looked after, nurtured and any incipient
problem nipped in the bud...

   Student: With all due respect, sir, I just wanted to say: One, that you are
using the fear of the past in order to prevent progress; and second, you are
picking examples of countries which suit your argument but I can raise a dozen
others to counter with you.

   But this is not a philosophical discussion, so thank you for your time.

   Adversity? Move on

   Student: I'm a motivational speaker with my own one-man start-up... I go
around the schools to give seminar talks to kids and youth but I don't charge,
so am I considered a social entrepreneur?

   And if so, are there any social entrepreneurs you could share with us to
encourage me and other social entrepreneurs to have a passion or fire burning
right here in our hearts and right in this place we call Singapore?

   MM Lee: I'm afraid I'm very ignorant about this. What is a motivational
speaker? I plead ignorance, real ignorance.

   Student: Basically I talk to the kids...about personal experience, share some
motivational stories with them hoping that you can inspire them.

   MM: I'm not an evangelist, I don't go round trying to convert people. I'm a
practical man. My answer to you is: If you like to do that job and if you think
you can go into business and you have already started, try and get a lot of
experience so that you will have a lot of data to draw from and give to people.r

   Student: Actually, I do have one experience...I suffered a stroke when I was
16 and it has been five years. I have moved on.

   I'm not 100 per cent now - but I could make it past the A levels, O levels,
up to NUS.

   MM: I follow, I understand. Well, good for you.

   You've got to overcome adversity. My wife suffered a stroke. I have to spend
all my time telling her: Forget it, let's start from here, move on.

   And I say good luck to you, move on.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              152 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: IN THE MONEY

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Chen Jiulin says Aussie trader started oil bets;
CAO chief says he was not informed of the highly risky trades for 9 months

BYLINE: Tschang Chi-chu, China Correspondent Lee Su Shyan, Companies
Correspondent

BODY:

   THE suspended chief executive (CEO) of China Aviation Oil (CAO) yesterday
alleged he had been kept in the dark when an Australian trader made the first of
many speculative oil deals that eventually crippled the firm.

   Mr Chen Jiulin slammed CAO's risk management committee which, he claims, did
not tell him about the highly risky trades for nine months.

   He told the Beijing Youth Daily publication that the Australian trader
allegedly began dealing in speculative oil derivatives on June 30, 2003. He did
not name the trader but CAO's 2003 annual report lists Australian Gerard Rigby
as its deputy head of oil trading.

   Mr Rigby is one of four senior CAO executives who have surrendered their
passports to the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD). The four are still working
at CAO.

   When contacted yesterday, Mr Rigby would say only that Mr Chen's comments
were 'not correct'.

   Mr Chen, who was giving his third interview since the scandal broke, claimed
the company's risk management committee waited until March last year to inform
him about the trading. CAO eventually disclosed losses of US$550 million on Nov
29.

   In the interview, Mr Chen also attempted to rebut some of the media reports
that have surfaced since the jet fuel supplier's losses were made public. He
said that when the trades first started, they were based on last year's oil
prices. Because prices were low at the time, Mr Chen said the management could
not detect any 'big changes'.

   He also denied reports that he made trades himself. He did not personally
trade derivatives, he claimed, as he did not understand them.

   His comments have shifted some of the focus to Mr Rigby, who has more than 10
years' experience in oil trading.

   Mr Rigby has worked at Australian oil company Ampol as well as at Australian
Petroleum, Caltex Australia and Caltex Trading in Singapore. He earned a Master
of Commerce from the University of New South Wales in 1989.

   The 2003 annual report also cites Ms Cindy Chong as chairing the risk
management committee. Four other senior executives sit on this committee, which
was set up in October 2002 to monitor and control CAO's aggregate risk exposure
from its trading activities.

   They were meant to regularly review a range of risk policies and issues. It
is believed that the committee reported to Mr Chen. Ms Chong declined to
comment.

   Some observers were surprised to learn of Mr Chen's comments yesterday: CAO's
2003 annual report - issued on Feb 28 last year and signed by Mr Chen - referred
to profits from oil trading, indicating that he knew of such activities at the
firm.

   And legal papers Mr Chen filed on Nov 29 last year quoted him as saying that
losses at the end of March last year stood at only US$5.8 million.

   'It's a long time from March until October,' said one dealer. October was
when the losses ballooned to the US$550 million mark as oil prices surged to
record levels. CAO had incorrectly bet on the price of oil falling, when in fact
it rose sharply.

   In the interview, Mr Chen also referred to some media reports that cited
cases of Chinese private entrepreneurs who had committed suicide when their
companies went bust, an act seen by some as an admission of responsibility.

   Mr Chen responded: 'Does committing suicide mean that they accept
responsibility and me living mean that I am running away from responsibility?
Committing suicide is one way of running away from responsibility.

   'Ultimately, I am the CEO and when something like this happens, I cannot
shirk the responsibility.'

   The CAD arrested Mr Chen when he returned to Singapore on Dec 8 from China.
He is out on bail here.

   CAO spokesman Gerald Woon declined to comment.

   Shared responsibility?

   Mr Chen did not name the trader but CAO's 2003 annual report lists Australian
Gerard Rigby as the company's deputy head of oil trading.

   Mr Rigby is one of four senior CAO executives who have surrendered their
passports to CAD. The four are still working at CAO.

   When contacted, Mr Rigby's brief response was that Mr Chen's comments were
'not correct'.

   CAO's chairman of the risk management committee is Ms Cindy Chong. She
declined to comment.

   Four other senior executives sit on this committee, set up in October 2002 to
monitor and control CAO's aggregate risk exposure from its trading activities.

   They were meant to regularly review risk policies and issues. It is believed
the committee reported to Mr Chen.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              153 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Review - Others

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Zealous religious cops trigger Muslim backlash;
Thuggish behaviour during a club raid prompts call for scrutiny of powers

BYLINE: Leslie Lau , Malaysia Correspondent

BODY:

   KUALA LUMPUR - THERE are two sets of rules in Malaysia, one for Muslims and
another for non-Muslims, a senior Muslim Cabinet minister remarked to senior
journalists at a private meeting last week.

   He said that back in the era of the country's first prime minister Tunku
Abdul Rahman, a man known for his fondness of drink, 'religion was a private
matter between you and God'.

   'Nowadays, we have these fundamentalists going around oppressing Muslims,
making us second-class citizens. We have to put a stop to such things. If people
wanted a mob of religious police enforcing rules they would have voted for PAS,'
he said, referring to the opposition Parti Islam SeMalaysia (PAS).

   The set of rules for Muslims got pretty Azura, 20, a part-time student and
waitress, arrested by officers from the Religious Department, Malaysia's de
facto religious police, while she was at a swanky dance club in the heart of the
city here last week.

   'I like dancing. Sometimes I have a few drinks and I have never been in
trouble. I save my money to go clubbing there once a week,' she said, requesting
that her full name not be used, just 'in case they mark me or something like
that'.

   Her crime, and that of more than 100 other Muslims at the club, was being in
the wrong place at the wrong time and being dressed 'indecently'.

   'This is supposed to be the city and not some small village. I never expected
to be humiliated like that,' she told The Straits Times.

   When officers from the Religious Department walked into the club on Jan 20,
they directed the management to switch on all the lights, cut the music and then
proceeded to separate the crowd into two groups: Muslims and non-Muslims.

   The Muslims, almost half of them women, were told to sit on the floor like
common criminals.

   They were then herded into caged trucks and taken to lock-ups where they were
detained for nearly 10 hours.

   It was the women who were subjected to the most attention: they were asked to
parade around while officers took photographs to determine if they were decently
dressed.

   The religious officers ogled at the women and made sarcastic remarks about
the women's breasts and private parts.

   One woman was not allowed toilet access and was forced to relieve herself in
her pants.

   'Most of us were dressed in tank tops and jeans. These men told us that we
should be ashamed for not covering up. Even my father has never said that to me,
' said Miss Azura.

   It is still not clear under what Islamic provisions Miss Azura and the other
Muslim clubbers would be prosecuted.

   This is not the first time such raids have been conducted, but the wave of
protests, especially from Muslims who are usually too cowed by religious
fundamentalists to say anything, has been unprecedented.

   The raid was even discussed at the Cabinet meeting last week.

   The Straits Times understands that Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi was
particularly upset by the thuggish behaviour of the religious officers.

   Datuk Seri Abdullah, a devout Muslim and Islamic scholar, has a wife who does
not wear the Muslim headscarf but dresses conservatively, and he has based his
administration on Islam Hadhari, a philosophy that embraces modernity and
tolerance.

   But there was no sign of that tolerance when the religious police raided the
popular dance club, which is just a five-minute walk from the Petronas Twin
Towers, the most well-known sign of the country's modern face.

   The Cabinet has now ordered the Attorney-General's Chambers to study just how
much powers religious officers have in conducting raids.

   Religious officers are given limited and vague powers to enforce the syariah
law, which exists side-by-side with secular laws.

   They rarely nab Muslims for drinking or indecent dressing, usually conducting
raids instead at public parks or hotel rooms to catch Muslim couples having
premarital sex.

   The Cabinet has asked the Attorney-General's Chambers to look into whether
the religious officers made unlawful arrests.

   Ministers are also considering doing away with religious officers and leaving
the police as the sole authority dealing only with criminal matters.

   A growing number of Muslims find the very idea of 'moral guardians' in bad
taste, despite the fact that most Muslims remain conservative and frown upon
Muslims who drink and women who do not wear the headscarf.

   But conservative or otherwise, most Muslims here find the behaviour of the
religious cops unacceptable.

   'I pity the young boys and girls who were herded like criminals and treated
like animals in a lockup.

   'Instead of shedding light on the virtues of Islam, the officers made these
youths start questioning their religion,' Mr Hassan Talib, a reader of the New
Straits Times, wrote in the newspaper's letters page.

   Madam Kamelia Ibrahim, a senior Umno women's wing leader, who wears a
conservative headscarf, also posed a valid question thrown up by the raid: Is it
illegal for Muslims to go to a nightclub?

   'If it is illegal they should announce it.

   'And if some were detained for wearing skimpy clothes, what about Muslims
wearing these outfits on the streets?' she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              154 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Life! - News

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Barry funny;
Writer's block after 30 years? No, America's leading humour columnist Dave Barry
is taking a year's break to 'do something else'

BYLINE: Kristina Tom

BODY:

   DAVE BARRY and George W. Bush have one thing in common - they both ran for
the United States presidency last year.

   And why not? After all, Barry is a household name in the US, topping its
bestseller lists year after year and writing a weekly column for 30 years that
has been syndicated in over 500 newspapers across the globe.

   But in Singapore, the 57-year-old writer is more of a cult favourite, as
booksellers here say his coupling of incisive observations with toilet humour is
'niche'.

   MPH says it sells 200 copies a year of any of his new books here.

   Still, he is hip enough for bookstores here to make sure their humour
sections are stocked with his books, with Borders alone carrying more than 10
titles of some 20 books he has written to date.

   Well, he did win the Pulitzer Prize for Commentary in 1988 and has been
dubbed 'the funniest man in America' by The New York Times newspaper.

   Two of his books have even been made it into movies, with the latest - Dave
Barry's Complete Guide To Guys - premiering tomorrow at California's Santa
Barbara International Film Festival.

   Barry makes his acting debut in the film, which also stars Monty Python
alumnus John Cleese.

   The other film is 2002's Big Trouble, which starred Tim Allen.

   So, on Jan 2 this year, Barry's sudden announcement of a year-long hiatus
from his wildly popular column - he gets 50,000 letters a day from fans - with
the possibility of quitting it for good, left fans shocked and in a desperate
search for another source of political commentary and booger jokes.

   The native of Armonk in New York graduated with an English degree from
Pennsylvania's Haverford College and joined The Miami Herald in 1983.

   There, he met his wife, sportswriter Michelle Kaufman, 40, whom he married in
1996. They now live in Miami with his two children, Rob, 24, and Sophie, four.
He says his family finds him 'mildly amusing but also terrifically embarrassing
'.

   Over the phone from Miami last Friday, Barry told Life! in his typical,
tongue-in-cheek manner about his new movie, his books to come and, of course,
why he quit his job:

   First question: Why did you quit?

   I didn't really quit. I stopped writing my column so that I'd have more time
to do other stuff.

   Last year was a perfect storm of obligations. I went to the Summer Olympics,
we had a presidential election, I had two books due and a book tour. It was
ridiculous. Every night I'd think, 'I haven't done this, I haven't done that.'

   And I was thinking, 'Why? I'm 57 years old. Why am I feeling like all I'm
doing all day every day is cranking stuff out? Shouldn't I be enjoying my life
more than that?'

   How long had you been thinking of quitting?

   More than a year. The column was the one thing I needed to let go of. It was
always on my mind, always due. It used to be that I'd never ever have a weekend
without sneaking back to the office for a couple of hours. This year, I'd say,
'Nope, I'm going to stay in and hang out with my family.'

   1Do you think you're disappointing your fans by quitting?

   I suppose I am and I feel bad about that. I do wish I could please everybody,
but I've learned in my old age that I can't. I've done that for a long time and
it's time to do something else. I hope people understand that.

   Now that you have more time, do you plan to take on new kinds of projects?

   I'm not looking to do more things - I'm looking to do fewer things. But I do
have a movie coming out. It's based on my book of the same title, Dave Barry's
Complete Guide to Guys.

   The guy who wrote the movie, Jeff Arch, also wrote the screenplay for
Sleepless In Seattle. I'll get more excited if anybody can actually see the
movie, but we're not there yet.

   You actually acted in the movie?

   Yeah, I don't know if acting is the word I would use, but I'm in front of the
camera a lot. I'd never done anything like that.

   What keeps you busy now?

   I'm writing a children's series based on Peter Pan with my friend, writer
Ridley Pearson. I also have a humour book coming out on money management, which
I'm still writing.

   Tell me more about the money management book.

   It's on something I really don't know anything about. But I've never known
anything about any of the books I've written. There's virtually no topic that I
do know anything about, and I'm not about to start researching now, not after
all these years.

   How do you prepare for a book if you don't research?

   Ah, well, you know, it's gruelling. I run 24km to 32km a day and do thousands
of push-ups - no, I just sit around and stare at the screen and try to think of
funny stuff. I go, 'Huh, I wonder if that'll be funny.'

   A lot of trial and error then?

   More error than anything else. When I've got writer's block, which is pretty
often, I go make a sandwich. So that comes up to 80 or 90 sandwiches a day.
Peanut butter and jelly or grilled cheese. These are the two key writer's
block-breaking sandwiches.

   For more information, visit www.davebarry.com

   Barry good

   HERE'S our pick of the best Dave Barry reads you can get in bookstores
here:PETER AND THE STARCATCHERS (2004) with Ridley Pearson/Hyperion/451
pages/$32.95This tome for kids is meant as a prequel to writer JM Barrie's Peter
Pan stories. So, no, it's not his usual fare but it still entertains with a
curious combination of old pirate lore and a modern-day sense of humour.

   TRICKY BUSINESS (2002) Piatkus/320 pages/$18.85 His second novel and a comic
mystery just like his debut one, Big Trouble (1999). Brace yourself for a
cocktail of live action satire, with the Mafia, a floating casino and a tropical
storm thrown in for good measure.

   DAVE BARRY HITS BELOW THE BELTWAY (2001) Ballantine/180 pages/
$29.95Chronicles the history of, as Barry puts it, 'the zany and wacky outfit'
that is the United States government. It begins with the dawn of Man - 'short,
hairy tree-dwelling creatures that strongly resembled Danny DeVito' - and ends
with the infamous nailbiter that was the 2000 US presidential election. Jon
Stewart, eat your heart out.

   DAVE BARRY TURNS 50 (1998) Ballantine/219 pages/$27.95Rather than run out and
buy a big, red sportscar, he chose to celebrate his 50th birthday with a new
book filled with musings on pop culture and, yes, old age.

   DAVE BARRY DOES JAPAN (1992) Fawcett/210 pages/$25.95One more for America's
continuing fascination with Japan, from the moody Bill Murray movie Lost In
Translation to the chirpy singalongs of Big Bird In Japan. Barry had a hard time
with the food, in particular: 'The new culinary rage when we were in Japan was
to eat fish that were still alive. I cannot imagine doing such a thing unless I
were really desperate to get into a fraternity.'

   DAVE BARRY'S BAD HABITS (1985) Owl/291 pages/$25.95 Move aside Stephen Covey:
this collection of early 1980s columns gives better - and funnier - advice on
life than any self-help book ever could. And more than just seven, or eight,
habits.

   Barry quotable

   DAVE BARRY does...

   SCREWBALL'I was horrified at what my peers might think of my Dad; it never
occurred to me that my peers didn't even notice my Dad, because they were too
busy being mortified by their parents. Of course, eventually my father stopped
being a hideous embarrassment to me, and I, grasping the Torch of Dorkhood,
became a hideous embarrassment to my son.' -- From his column The Power To
Embarrass (published on Aug 11, 1996)

   SOMBREMy brother Phil calls, crying, from a hospital. My mother has taken a
massive overdose of Valium and alcohol. The doctors want permission to turn off
the machines. They say there's no hope.

   We talk about it, but there really isn't much to say. We give the permission.

   It's the only logical choice.

   The last thing I saw my mother do - just before she went down the tunnel to
her plane - was turn and give me a big smile. It wasn't a smile of happiness; it
was the same smile I give my son when he gets upset listening to the news, and I
tell him don't worry, we're never going to have a nuclear war.

   I can still see that smile any time I want. Close my eyes, and there it is. A
Mum, trying to reassure her boy that everything's going to be okay.  -- - From
his column Lost In America (Nov29, 1987)

   SELF-DEPRECATION'After I wrote a column suggesting that opera might be fatal
to humans, I was invited to Eugene, Oregon, to participate in the Eugene Opera's
performance of the Puccini opera Gianni Schicchi. I played the part of a corpse.
' -- 'An Air Force pilot took me for a F-16 fighter jet ride, during which -
while hurtling through the brilliant blue sky high above the Straits of Florida
at faster than the speed of sound - I threw up.'

   'After I made fun of North Dakota, the city of Grand Forks, invited me up
there one January, and, in a deeply moving - also deeply cold - ceremony
attended by a crowd of dozens, the mayor of Grand Forks, Mike Brown, dedicated a
new sewage-lifting station in my honour. (Mayor Brown's official proclamation
very eloquently compared my work to the production of human excrement.)' -- From
his final column The Last Word, For Now; Humorist Gives Jokes A Rest (Jan 2,
2005)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              155 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

SECTION: Life! - News

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Running for her life

BYLINE: Cheong Suk-wai

BODY:

   FOR 14 years, a cloak of secrecy shrouded the identity of a young American
female jogger in New York's Central Park who, at around 9pm on April 19, 1989,
was dragged into a ravine by a thug, raped, beaten and left for dead.

   Rescuers found the then 28-year-old with five deep cuts on her head, a broken
skull, an eyeball knocked out of place and a ballooning brain which was in
danger of being damaged permanently. Mercifully, the former corporate financier
of top American investment firm Salomon Brothers recovered. She has scars but no
memory of those brutal hours.

   In 2003, Ms Trisha Meili finally introduced herself to the world by releasing
her memoir, titled simply I Am The Central Park Jogger.

   Today, she lives in a suburb in Connecticut, works for a non-profit
organisation and is a sought-after speaker on healing after trauma. Here is an
excerpt from her account of her long journey from terror to hope: THE 1995
marathon was the coldest and windiest to date.

   'I'm freezing,' I said.

   Ted, a 60ish athlete who was about to run his 16th consecutive New York City
Marathon, had an idea: He gave me a bear hug.

   Ted's idea was so good that I noticed a few others around us adopting the
'shared body heat' strategy, a lovely moment.

   Then, at last the starting gun sounded and we were off. A mob of people, us
included, began to cross the starting line to the accompaniment of cheering
crowds, band music and the television crews flying in helicopters above us.

   We went along pretty well until we approached the infamous 20-mile mark, a
time in the race known as 'hitting the wall' to marathoners. I started to slow
down. I'm not sure I'll make it, I thought. Ted noticed.

   'You were an economics major at Wellesley, weren't you?' he asked.

   I grunted a yes.

   'Did you ever take a course with Carolyn Shaw Bell, the head of the
department? I know her and admire her work.'

   'No.' Talking was a struggle. 'She was a tough professor and I avoided her.'

   'Well, tell me about some of the economic theories you learnt.'

   I couldn't believe it! Is the man mad? I wondered. He's asking me for an
intelligent response when all I can think about is whether I can put one foot in
front of the other.

   It made me angry, but, brought up to be polite, I tried to answer him.

   My mind dug back to my macroeconomic courses - and suddenly I had broken
through 'the wall'.

   My anger vanished. Another of this experienced marathoner's strategies had
worked, and we resumed our old pace.

   'Let's get there under 4 1/2 hours,' I shouted, and took off, Ted following
with a look of amazement on his face.

   I was on familiar ground here. I knew every uphill, downhill and curve of
those last miles, and it felt great to run them. The energy that had been sapped
by the race returned.

   My legs felt light, pliable. I had reclaimed 'my' park. I knew I would
finish.

   Six and a half years after I had nearly lost my life in this park, had lost
75 to 80 per cent of my blood, had nearly lost an eye, had lain in a coma from
which some doctors believed I would never emerge - indeed, after doctors had
predicted I would never regain my physical or mental capabilities - I crossed
the New York City Marathon finish line in four hours, 30 minutes and one second,
and there's a picture on my desk of me crossing the line with the race clock
above me to prove it.

   Ted and I hugged again. I was hungry, tired and overjoyed, though there was
one deep letdown. My parents had come in from Pittsburgh to spend the five days
surrounding the marathon with me, and my father stood at the southern end of
Central Park so he could see me among the runners.

   My mother was now too debilitated with MS (multiple sclerosis) to stand for
any length of time in the wind and cold.

   Somehow, my Dad and I missed each other. It was horribly disappointing for
both of us, and particularly tough for Dad.

   I was, after all, 'his girl', and he had been through agonies, what with the
attack on me and my mother's MS.

   That night, though, I would meet my parents for dinner, and we would
celebrate my marathon. There would be no reason for me to run another.

   Soon after, I gave the medal I earned for finishing the race to my Mum... to
not let her disability let her down. She had the medal framed and hung it in the
family room where she saw it every day.

   My mother, now, was running the true marathon.

   Oh, yes. One more celebrant was at our dinner after the race.

   At the finish line, I had hugged him with far more passion than I'd hugged
Ted, and he accompanied me and my parents to dinner.

   His name is Jim, and I loved and love him with all my heart and soul.

   I Am The Central Park Jogger by Trisha Meili is on sale at Borders at $25.95
a copy (includes GST). She will make donations to America's Achilles Track Club,
Gaylord Hospital and The Mount Sinai Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention
Program from the proceeds of her book. Her website is www.centralparkjogger.org

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

                              156 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: SOLDIER KILLED MAN TO FAKE HIS OWN MURDER

BODY:



   NEW DELHI: Had it been a script, Bollywood may have jumped at it. Instead,
Lance Naik Jaipal, a wannabe script-writer, used it to fake his death, murdering
a hapless rag-picker and planting his own identity papers on the body.

   But on January 22, Jaipal's plan fell apart when he was arrested from
Samaspur village for killing and burning beyond recognition a rag-picker, who
went by the name of Ravi Bangali and frequented the New Delhi railway station.

   But what was the Lance Naik's motive? He was trying to escape his
brothers-in-law who he felt would kill him as they held his responsible for
their sister, Jaipal's wife's death. He was also trying to escape a
court-martial which he anticipated after some grenades had been found from one
of his relatives' house in Jhajjar, Haryana. After the relatives told the police
Jaipal had given them the grenades, a non-bailable warrant had been issued
against him.

   So, the man who claimed to have been in touch with Yash Chopra to get a
toehold in Bollywood, decided to reinvent his life. He had his plans down pat,
including a new career.

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              157 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: FRAUD DRAWS DEAD MAN'S PENSION

BYLINE: Sumati Yengkhom

BODY:



   HOWRAH: A few months ago it was a dead man issuing death certificates in the
Howrah Municipal Corporation. This time, it's a young man drawing pension of a
man who died two years back. What's more, the youth was authorised by none other
than a mayor in council member of the Howrah municipality. This continued for
almost two years after the HMC declared the pensioner dead.

   The HMC death certificate says Abdul Sattar of 73, Bellilious Road died on
June, 6, 2003 at the age of 65. The Times of India also verified this from
Sattar's elder brother Akhtar Ali. Now 70, Ali stays in the same house house
where his brother lived. He confirmed that his brother Abdul expired almost two
years ago.

   Abdul Sattar used to draw an oldpension given by the West Bengal government.
But after his death, the account was not closed. Instead, 24-year-old Abdul
Khalique of 1/1 Ganga Ram Bairagi Lane, continued to draw Sattar's pension with
the help of a recommendation from an MMIC in the Howrah municipality.

   That's not all. More than a year after Sattar's death, Khalique obtained a
doctor's certificate that Sattar was alive but bed ridden. He has been using
this certificate and the MMIC's authorisation allowing Khalique to draw the
amount on Sattar's behalf. The doctor's certificate, duly signed by Dr A.K.
Mallick, reveals that it was issued on January 13, 2005, long after Sattar's
death. The certificate is available with the ToI.

   It states that Abdul Sattar was suffering from an injury on the right knee
since December 31, 2004, and was under his treatment. The certificate further
advised bed rest for the ailing patient.

   The doctor, when contacted, didn't deny issuing the certificate, but said it
was not possible for him to verify who the patient was. "Somebody came to me
with a knee injury and said his name was Abdul Sattar. He needed a certificate
for his office. How would I know that he was a fraud," said Dr Mallick.

   However, the MMIC didn't wait for the doctor's certificate to write to the
manager of Bank of India, Howrah Branch, requesting him to release the pension.
It was only after the bank manager insisted on a doctor's certificate that
Khalique resorted to the fraud. Locals complained that Khalique was an active
CPM cadre and had taken advantage of his proximity with the CPM MMIC to
influence the bank. Khalique could not be contacted and his family refused to
speak. Sheikh Feroz, one of the neighbours, said that there were few more fake
pensioners in the locality.

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              158 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT URGES CIVIL SOCIETY RULES

BODY:



   PUNE: Speaking out sharply against the abduction of children in certain
states in the country, President APJ Kalam said "it is a matter of total shame.
It is a complete blot on the fabric of civilised India."

   In a strong indictment, the President, while asking for the immediate release
of the abducted children, said, "no government worth its salt can sit back
simply praying for their release. All people who have at least a modicum of self
respect and dignity left in them should rise against such brutish behaviour. The
abducted children have to be released immediately."

   He said, "Freedom is the essence of democracy but it does not mean licence
for unbridled behaviour. Misusing the freedom that is innate in a democratic set
up is nothing but vandalism. Kidnapping of children, which seems to have become
the pastime of certain anti-social elements, falls into this category. This is a
slap in the face of civilised society and a complete travesty of the values
which a just and fair society stands for."

   The President, who was in Pune for a series of functions, was speaking at the
11th convocation of the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics (GIPE). The
GIPE is celebrating its platinum jubilee this year while its Dhananjayrao Gadgil
library its centenary, having been founded by Gopal Krishna Gokhale and the
Servants of India society in 1905.

   Mr Kalam urged the kidnappers to think of the parents of the children,
emphasising that the children must be released immediately. While the president
did not name the state or the location of these abductions, the sharply worded
statement assumes significance since these have happened in Bihar, which goes to
the polls on February 3.

   Mr Kalam told the graduating students of GIPE that good politics needs good
economics and urged students to work as enlightened citizens within the
political situation.

   "Economic prosperity needs vision and the economic prosperity of a nation
does not bring it lasting peace since it faces security threats. No single
nation can look after its security; all nations need to work together," he said.

   In a thinly veiled reference to the US, he said even the most economically
prosperous nation in the world faces a threat to its national security.

   Going further, he said the UN was set up in 1945 to prevent wars, to step in
before a conflict could happen. Yet, despite its presence, the world has
witnessed two unilateral conflicts.

   "We need a world body which can facilitate bringing peace, prosperity and
knowledge to the nations, irrespective of the economic status of a particular
nation," he stressed.

   The president outlined a five-point programme for the development of the
country, which includes infrastructure development. While road connectivity is
essential, especially for the 6 lakh villages, he suggested a revival of plan to
interlink the rivers. He pointed to the need for water management, with floods
in one place and scarcity in another. Among the benefits of the interlinking of
rivers would be the increase of forest cover by a huge 20-30 per cent, he said.
However, political compulsions could well come in the way.

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              159 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: DID 'VICTIMS' TURN 'ACCUSED' DURING GUJARAT RIOTS?

BYLINE: Prashant Rupera

BODY:



   ANAND: How can a person be accused of murder when police records show him as
a victim of arson at the time of the murder? As improbable as it may sound, this
is among the 2,000-odd closed riot cases of 2002 that the Supreme Court has
ordered the Gujarat government to re-examine.

   Six Muslims have been accused of killing a Hindu girl in Vasad village of
Anand district on March 1, 2002. But police records show that the accused were
being rescued from an angry mob at the same time when the girl was killed. Even
the post-mortem report shows that the girl was killed in police firing.

   Despite this, the police had filed an 'A Summary" in the case. On Wednesday,
Ahmedabad range inspector general VV Rabari will record statements in the case
and try and ascertain the facts.

   Moreover, because the six persons were accused of murder, they were not given
compensation despite their home and hotel were destroyed by an angry mob. The
post-Godhra riots in Anand had started on February 28 from Vasad with rioters
burning down Hotel Satkar in the first of the attacks. Police records show that
Muslim homes were attacked by a 4,000-strong mob on March 1.

   However, on March 9, another FIR was filed at the Vasad station stating that
six Muslims, including owner of the hotel Yusuf Vora, came in an Indica car and
shot dead 16-year-old Pinkal Soni at 4 pm.

   The three who filed the FIR - Pinal Patel, Hitesh Patel and Krunal Patel -
are not related to Pinkal Soni. Another FIR filed on March 1 states that four
constables fired 22 rounds from their.303 rifles between 6 am and 4.30 pm to
protect around 30 Muslims who were surrounded by a mob. Again, there are at
least four separate police statements to show that the Indica car, which Vora
allegedly used to commit the murder, had been burnt down four hours before
Pinkal was shot dead.

   Also, police records show that cops had dropped three of the accused at
Borsad at 3 pm while another was with them between 3 pm and 5 pm to help rescue
some Muslims trapped at Jharora village.

   Not surprisingly, Vora was shocked when the police filed an 'A Summary' in
the case and closed the file in August 2002. 'A Summary' means that the police
believe the complaint against the six is true but it is closing the case for
lack of evidence.

   "We want to clear our names as police records itself show that we are
innocent," says Vora. "Also, we have received no compensation from the
government despite our property worth around Rs 9 lakh was destroyed."

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              160 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: BABI'S COUSINS TO TAKE ON 'OUTSIDER' IN GOLD RUSH

BODY:



   RAJKOT: It has all the trappings of the pot-boilers she had acted in, with
doses of intrigue, rivalry and lust for money. Add to it a historic backdrop and
an outsider pitted against relatives and the plot thickens as Parveen Babi's
cousins meet in Junagadh on Wednesday to take on a person they now fear most -
the "adopted" son of the actress's father, a boy who grew up with Babi and
gained her confidence.

   Till Javed Noor Ahmed Sheikh keeps childhood photographs of Babi and he
playing on the sprawling lawns of their 'haveli' in Junagadh close to his heart,
others cannot breathe easy. And, amidst allegations that he may have staked
claim to Parveen's property in a Junagadh court, a number of family members will
decide on taking the legal course to ensure that "her property does not fall in
wrong hands".

   "The All-India Muslim Personal Law Board does not allow adoption. So, we have
to ensure that her property goes to the right person," says Nasreen Babi,
another cousin of Parveen. She, however, refuses to name Javed, when asked who
she feels may be the "usurper".

   The meeting, a coming together of the relatives of Parveen for the first time
after her body was found in her Mumbai flat on January 22, will also decide on
creating a trust in the name of Babi.

   Apart from Nasreen, her mother Rahim Sultana and her sister Mumtaz and Mumtaz
's sons Shamsher and Mushtaq would be present at the meeting.

   They will also be joined by Sujat Khan from Ahmedabad, who is the son of
Rustom, another cousin of Babi's father Vali Mohammad Khan Babi.

   What has made the cousins get together were revelations that Parveen Babi had
reportedly kept a will in a Junagadh bank and that Javed used to operate some
bank accounts jointly with her.

   "We would also not like the government to take possession of her property if
proper representation is not made from our side. We need to make a concerted
effort," said Nasreen.

   "My first job was to ensure a decent burial for her. Now that

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              161 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: BABI'S COUSINS TO TAKE ON 'OUTSIDER' IN GOLD RUSH

BODY:



   RAJKOT: It has all the trappings of the pot-boilers she had acted in, with
doses of intrigue, rivalry and lust for money. Add to it a historic backdrop and
an outsider pitted against relatives and the plot thickens as Parveen Babi's
cousins meet in Junagadh on Wednesday to take on a person they now fear most -
the "adopted" son of the actress's father, a boy who grew up with Babi and
gained her confidence.

   Till Javed Noor Ahmed Sheikh keeps childhood photographs of Babi and he
playing on the sprawling lawns of their 'haveli' in Junagadh close to his heart,
others cannot breathe easy. And, amidst allegations that he may have staked
claim to Parveen's property in a Junagadh court, a number of family members will
decide on taking the legal course to ensure that "her property does not fall in
wrong hands".

   "The All-India Muslim Personal Law Board does not allow adoption. So, we have
to ensure that her property goes to the right person," says Nasreen Babi,
another cousin of Parveen. She, however, refuses to name Javed, when asked who
she feels may be the "usurper".

   The meeting, a coming together of the relatives of Parveen for the first time
after her body was found in her Mumbai flat on January 22, will also decide on
creating a trust in the name of Babi.

   Apart from Nasreen, her mother Rahim Sultana and her sister Mumtaz and Mumtaz
's sons Shamsher and Mushtaq would be present at the meeting.

   They will also be joined by Sujat Khan from Ahmedabad, who is the son of
Rustom, another cousin of Babi's father Vali Mohammad Khan Babi.

   What has made the cousins get together were revelations that Parveen Babi had
reportedly kept a will in a Junagadh bank and that Javed used to operate some
bank accounts jointly with her.

   "We would also not like the government to take possession of her property if
proper representation is not made from our side. We need to make a concerted
effort," said Nasreen.

   "My first job was to ensure a decent burial for her. Now that it is over, I
"ll have to ensure that her property is used for charity. I had first mooted the
idea of a trust and I am happy her cousins in Junagadh are taking it forward,"
says Farhat Sultana Babi of Balasinore, Parveen's niece and her only blood
relation, with Farhat's grand-mother being the sister of Vali Mohammad Khan.
However, till Tuesday evening, Farhat was undecided on joining the meeting in
Junagadh.

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              162 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: A MARR(I)ED TALE!

BYLINE: NATASHA CHOPRA

BODY:



   An NRI groom is much sought after. But as experiences in Punjab, West Bengal
and Kerala show, in many cases, the girls are abandoned by their 'phoren'
husbands immediately after marriage. Ahmedabad Times takes a look at this

   It seemed like the perfect match. A blushing Suman gladly made her way to the
mandap to wed the dashing, Amreeca- settled Vishant. Her friends sighed
enviously at her good catch (read NRI) as did numerous relatives. 'Ladki ke to
naseeb khul gaye' -- some said.

   However, minutes before they were to enter into 'holy matrimony', the local
police interrupted. Not only was Vishant married but also the father of two
young children. Suman's shocked parents thanked the police for saving their
daughter's 'izzat' in time. For the smirking few, this is a real life story from
Ahmedabad.

   And unfortunately, not all girls are so lucky. Many innocent starryeyed girls
have entered into similar matrimonial alliances only to be abandoned by the (in
most cases, already married) groom, post-marriage.

   Take the instance of Punjab where (as a recent report mentioned) 70
complaints have been received by the NRI cell of the state police in 2004
alone.West Bengal and Kerala police too have received such complaints.

   Such is the seriousness of the problem that the Indian government is now
trying to set up committees in most countries where well-known NRIs can find out
the credentials of a potential groom, if a girl's family approaches them through
a central cell.

   However, in Gujarat, which has one of the highest rate of 'NRI marriages'
such cases apparently are few and far between. "As parents, we feel our daughter
will be comfortable if she is married to an NRI since obviously they earn much
more. Also America is the land of opportunity. We cannot afford to get her a
rich groom here since they want a similar financial background. In NRI marriages
it is not so, as they are usually looking for simple girls with Indian roots,"
says Roshni Parikh, whose daughter is married and settled in the US.

   Eera Malhotra, whose daughter is also married abroad, adds her bit: "Jo
kismet mein hai wohi hota hai. We can't do anything if our daughter is destined
to marry an NRI. However, we make sure that we find out everything possible
about the groom from credible sources. Only then do we go ahead."

   It's not just the parents, but the daughters themselves, who are keen on NRI
husbands. "I want to get married to an NRI since I feel there is not much to do
in the city. There are so many things to do in America, it is a very happening
place to be in. And earning in dollars always makes life easier," asserts Pooja
Sharma, currently 'seeing guys for marriage.'

   Officially, as senior police officials confirm, there are few cases a la
Punjab, which are registered here. However, as 'Suman's example' shows, there is
no place for complacency. Small wonder then that the Punjab Police is now
planning to slap a rape charge against all such 'fake grooms' under Section 376
of the IPC.

   (some names have been changed to protect identity)

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              163 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2005 Financial Times Information
                              All rights reserved
               Global News Wire - Asia Africa Intelligence Wire
            Copyright 2005 The Times of India. Bennett, Coleman & Co
                                     Ltd
                               The Times of India

                                February 2, 2005

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: OBJECTION OVERRULED

BYLINE: RAJEEVA SATYAVADA

BODY:



   Feminists feel the new SC ruling is unfair to the single mother

   Had the Pandava Queen Kunti or sage Jabali's mother been living today, they
wouldn't have faced the social stigma forced on to them by the patriarchal
society of the bygone era. Because, according to a recent Supreme Court ruling,
'children born out of wedlock inherit the father's identity or caste.'

   Not surprisingly, many feminists are up in arms against what the judgement
implies. So, do women, as well as society at large, think that the SC's ruling
is a viable proposition in the present Indian social setting? Or will it lead to
serious repercussions, considering its caste implications? Most importantly, in
the long run, will this ruling benefit the Indian woman or further detract from
her social standing?

   Professor of sociology, Sunanda Pandey, puts forward her views on the SC's
ruling rather vehemently with, "It's unfortunate that the SC should give such a
ruling, which reinforces and legitimises the follies of society, rather than
curbing them. Though we are a democratic nation, our society has not matured and
become as liberal as the western countries to accept a clause like this one.
Since our society is still rooted in caste and patriarchy, it will only lead to
its violation, thereby giving undue power to overrule the sanctity of marriage."
Discussing the nature of Indian society, and how important it is to step out of
caste rigidities, Magsaysay award winner Shanta Sinha of MV Foundation opines,
"Integral to caste system is the system of patriarchy. Invoking of caste
privileges therefore, holds inherent disadvantages for women."

   Advocate CVL Narasimha Rao hits the nail on the head when he says that
something needs to done about the excessive importance given to the father who
disowns his children. As he points out, the judgement means that lack of
importance is being shown to the mother who toils for the kids born out of
wedlock. He questions, "Why should the children carry the father's name and
caste and not the mother's, who has brought them up under adverse circumstances?
"

   Finally, just as a coin has two sides, so does this issue. One of the
advantages of this clause is that, "It will bring some amount of order in
society as well as prove beneficial for women, who otherwise cannot openly
disclose the father of the child," says Shanta.

   hyderabadtimes@indiatimes.com

JOURNAL-CODE: WTIN

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              164 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 2005, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: European effort spotlights plight of the Roma

BYLINE: Michelle Kelso and Andreea Cipca

DATELINE: VOLUNTARI, Romania

BODY:
VOLUNTARI, Romania -- Sometimes, the contempt is unmistakable, like the day a
shopkeeper blocked Marioara Tranca from entering her store and shouted, "Get out
of here, Gypsy!"

   Other times, it's more discreet. Why, for example, were certain top-scoring
sixth-graders rewarded with a crown of flowers, but not Tranca's daughter,
Madalina, who had the highest grades of all?

   In such moments, "my heart hurts," says Tranca, 35, who is from a long line
of Gypsies known for their potmaking skills. The Romanians, she says, "believe
that we are all stupid and we are all thieves. I don't think it will ever
change."

   In a country where the words "Moarte Tiganilor!" ("Death to the Gypsies!")
are scrawled across university buildings, it's tough to quarrel with Tranca's
observation. In fact, similar sentiments reverberate throughout much of Europe,
home to an estimated 7 million to 9 million Gypsies, also known as Roma.

   In the Czech Republic, 79% of respondents to a 2003-04 survey said they
wouldn't want Roma as neighbors, according to an EU report released in November.
The report also said leaders in the Slovak village of Svinia refused more than a
million euros ($1.3 million) in aid because the funding would have helped the
Roma.

   Such attitudes are old news to the Roma, who comprise a diverse ethnic group
from a range of communities that originated in India. Each has its own dialect
and traditions. Though Roma are concentrated in post-communist countries, an
estimated 1 million live in the USA.

   In a major effort to help one of Europe's largest, poorest and
fastest-growing ethnic minorities, leaders of many Central and Eastern European
countries are vowing to address their problems. Some of the pressure is coming
from Roma activists. International organizations also are calling attention to
the issue. The World Bank and Open Society Institute are launching a 10-year
initiative today aimed at monitoring eight countries that have pledged to
improve their treatment of the Roma.

   But the primary driver is the European Union, which recently opened its doors
to former Soviet bloc countries. Romania and Bulgaria are on track to join in
2007.

   Though EU membership confers benefits, such as access to markets and more
opportunities for foreign investment, it also carries responsibilities. With 80%
of Europe's Roma living in new or candidate countries, last November's EU report
called their plight a "litmus test of a humane society."

   But the effort to integrate Roma won't be easy. "Mentalities have to change
on both sides -- of the majority (population) and of the Roma," says Ilie Dinca,
president of Romania's National Agency for Roma.

   Difficult history

   To Americans, Romania's record on discrimination sounds familiar: Like U.S.
blacks, Roma were enslaved by landowners and clergy until the mid-19th century.
Along with Jews, they were deported to concentration camps during World War II.

   History has left a devastating imprint. Romania is home to as many as 2.5
million Roma. According to the World Bank and Open Society Institute, poverty
rates range from four to 10 times that of Europeans. Nearly 40% of Roma live on
as little as $2.15 a day. In Bulgaria where there could be as many as 800,000
Roma, 89% have never gotten past primary school. Life expectancies regionwide
are about 10 years lower for Roma than for majority populations, the EU report
says.

   Though the Roma largely abandoned their nomadic ways after World War II,
Western European countries are attracting more Roma from post-communist
countries, many seeking political asylum. Among the reasons: The aid offered
there as immigration cases work their way through the courts is more than what a
Roma might receive at home.

    In a part of the world where weak economies have forced nearly everyone to
struggle, many Europeans see the Roma as a danger to stretched resources, says
Gheorghe Sarau, a Romanian Ministry of Education and Research official.

   It isn't clear how Roma, particularly those who avoid outsiders, will respond
to outreach efforts. The EU, for instance, has condemned the custom of child
marriages. But in some Roma communities, tradition is strong. Tranca opposed the
marriage in November of her son, Alexandru, 17, the oldest of her five children.
But her opinion was irrelevant.  "In matters of marriage, the elders have the
last word," says Tranca's husband, Mladin, 34.

   Local attitudes about Roma also are proving hard to change. Europeans
complain that the Roma don't bathe, have too many children and refuse to send
them to school. There are references to drugs, prostitution, the black market.
Just about everybody has a story about pickpockets.

   "The first thing that comes into my mind is, 'They're dirty.' This is a
mentality that we grew up with," says Monica Branzan, 23, a student at the
University of Bucharest.

   Perhaps more than older generations, Branzan and several classmates concede a
certain hypocrisy on their part. The Roma "seem not to want to change," says
Cristina Mustea-Stanca, 22, another university student. "The problem is, we want
them to be normal on our terms."

   The students acknowledge that their views are based on limited experience.
Textbooks offer little about the Roma. Aside from what they see in public,
Europeans mostly get information through the media, which tend to focus on crime
or seemingly archaic Roma traditions.

   To the extent that the stereotypes are rooted in truth, they are a product of
history, say activists Delia Grigore, a professor at the University of Bucharest
and founder of an organization for Roma youth, and Costel Bercus, executive
director of Romani Crisis.

   They argue that crime is a function of poverty, not ethnicity. Bercus says
the centuries-old custom of early marriages began as a survival technique: It
was a way to safeguard Roma girls from being raped by their owners.

    Marioara Tranca notes that the Roma don't have a lock on antisocial
behavior. "Both Romanians and Gypsies have bad people in their populations," she
says.

   Prices of education

   In Romania, one persistent assumption among non-Roma is that Roma families
don't value education.

    According to the World Bank, 70% to 80% of Roma in Europe have less than a
primary school education. Fewer than 1% go on to higher education. The main
reasons, says an Open Society Institute report in 2000, are that the isolation
of Roma makes it difficult for their children to get to school, seasonal work
opportunities force them to move, or the children feel excluded in the
classroom. To that end, programs have been developed aimed at improving the
classroom climate and training teachers in cultural sensitivity.

   But Roma teens suggest the problems go much deeper.

   Nelu Fieraru, 18, of Foltesti says he dropped out after the fourth-grade
because his grandparents wanted him to beg or steal. If he didn't make any
money, "they wouldn't let me come back home," he says.

   Now, Fieraru is in the eighth grade, participating in a program in the
industrial city of Galati created two years ago to give Roma dropouts another
chance. In addition to English, math and other academic subjects, they're
learning food-industry skills.

   Viorica Gotu, Galati County's adviser on Roma issues, sees a big difference
in the students, most of whom came from villages in the poorest parts of
Romania. But of the 30 students who enrolled, 11 left -- all girls. The problem,
she says, is that the girls were being teased in their villages because they
weren't married.

   Still, Gotu envisions long-term success: The remaining two girls are "going
to succeed," she says. "The girls who go home will be beaten by their husbands
and have a lot of children. They're going to see the others are successful and
will make sure that their children stay in school."


   GRAPHIC: No hope for change: Marioara Tranca, front, pictured with her
relatives, says she doesn't believe Roma stereotypes will change. Hope for
change: Marius Badache, 16, writes his name during English class in Galati,
Romania.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2005

                              165 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 2005, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Providence's Brewington proves he's able to play Hearing-impaired
swingman doing well on, off court

BYLINE: Jeff Goodman; Special for USA TODAY

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE

BODY:
PROVIDENCE -- Dwight Brewington walks out of the huddle just before the start of
the game, looks up into the stands for his mother, Pamela Harrison, and then
folds his middle and fourth fingers to his palm.

   Harrison breaks into a wide grin and replies with an identical handshape,
which means "I love you."

   Many taking their first look at Brewington, a 6-foot-5 swingman at Providence
College, have no idea he's profoundly deaf. One fan seated courtside is puzzled
late in a game against Boston College when the action suddenly stops, and the
referees search the court under the Providence basket. The fan assumes a contact
lens has fallen to the floor but discovers it's actually one of Brewington's
hearing aids.

    Brewington doesn't hear the crowd chant his name after he connects on a
three-pointer or dunks the ball in transition. Even with his aids, his hearing
is minimal at best -- especially in a raucous environment like the Dunkin'
Donuts Center.

   The 20-year-old sophomore is thriving as the Friars' second-leading scorer,
though the team is struggling. Brewington has gone from a role player to
averaging 14 points a game behind All-American candidate Ryan Gomes. But the
Friars, ranked as high as No. 12 last season, now sit in the Big East cellar --
0-7 in conference play and 9-11 overall.

   Mom 'felt guilty'

   Harrison first realized her son was deaf when he was 13 months old and a
babysitter brought up the notion.

   "I didn't think he was ignoring me," she says. "I just didn't think he
understood. I brought him right to the doctor, and he failed the hearing test.
It was devastating. I felt guilty and blamed myself because he came out of me."

   Harrison, a legal assistant in Boston, had the Beverly School of Deaf come to
their Lynn, Mass., home to teach her and Dwight sign language. Brewington
quickly picked up a stubborn trait that has stuck with him.

   "He never really signed," his mother says. "Once he learned the word for
something, he'd never sign it again. He was making choices even way back then."

   One of the few signs Brewington still chooses to use is "I love you," a sign
he shares most with his mother.

   In the first grade, Harrison figured it would be best for her son to be
enrolled in a regular classroom rather than one that used sign language. Despite
the relentless teasing, Brewington, a self-proclaimed mama's boy, figured out
how to get by.

   At Lynn English High School, Brewington established himself as one of
Massachusetts' top players and won a pair of Northeastern Conference titles as a
sophomore and junior. He spent his senior year at Worcester Academy, a boarding
prep school, where he helped lead the team to its first title in 15 years.

   Next stop, Providence.

   Hard work in college

   College hasn't been easy.

   The Friars staff tries to make sure Brewington has what he needs, but it has
been a learning process with their first hearing-impaired player.

   While recruiting Brewington, Providence assistant coach Phil Seymore took
three sign-language classes before learning Brewington reads lips instead of
signing.

   So, adjustments were made on the basketball court.

   Head coach Tim Welsh and his staff make certain to look at Brewington when
speaking, and point guard Donnie McGrath makes eye contact when calling a play.

   "I don't hear the play," Brewington says. "I don't hear the point guard. I
just watch what Donnie and the other players are doing and where they're going
to go. And I know what's going to happen next. I've never had a problem."

   McGrath has confidence in his teammate.

   "You just have to make sure he sees you," he says. "I don't think there's
ever been a time in the game when there's been a miscommunication or when Dwight
being deaf has ever affected the team."

   But it has affected his academics.

   "I had a kid taking notes for me last year, and they came back from each
class with either nothing or sometimes a half-page of notes," says Brewington,
who said he hovered near a 2.0. "I didn't even bother to do well because I didn
't have what I needed."

   Now, a professional note-taker sits next to him in each class, and when it
ends, she and Brewington rehash the class. Last semester, he nearly made the
honor roll.

   "It's been a learning process for all of us," Welsh said. "There were some
trying moments, but he's done a great job this year -- both on and off the
court."

   Despite the improvements, Brewington, who lives alone in a dorm room, says it
's still a struggle.

   "I don't even talk to kids on campus," he says. "I go to class, eat, go to
practice, go straight to my room every day."

   He says McGrath is his only close friend on the team, and he rarely
socializes with other students.

   "Some people just don't give Dwight a chance," McGrath says. "They don't try
to get to know him because communication is an issue, but he's one of my best
friends in the world and is a great kid who is easy to talk to. Once you get to
know him, he learns to communicate better with you and gets better at reading
your lips."

   His mother says she knows the losing is hard on him, and she knows keeping
her son happy is no easy task.

   "I think Dwight still has some growing up to do," Harrison says. "He is a
complicated person. Why is he like that? Because he doesn't hear everything, and
he's had to have a level of defense up since he was young. He puts it there to
protect himself."

   It's the basketball court, Brewington's safe haven, where he's most
comfortable.

   "When I'm on the court I feel like I'm in heaven," he says. "I feel like I
was born to play ball. When I'm out there I don't let anything bother me."

    <coverfront1>In focus</coverfront1>

GRAPHIC: Working things out: Dwight Brewington, Providence's No. 2 scorer, is
profoundly deaf and has to make eye contact with teammates and coaches to know
plays. Staying near: Other schools recruited Brewington, but he and his mother
decided it was better for him to be close by.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2005

                              166 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 2005, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Patriots' Neal grappled with career change Phone call put wrestler on
road to Super Bowls

BYLINE: Gary Mihoces

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE

BODY:
JACKSONVILLE -- Sports agent Neil Cornrich was at his Cleveland-area office in
2001 when he received the telephone solicitation.

   "Hi, Neil, my name is Steve Neal, and I'd like to play pro football," said
the quiet-spoken caller, two years out of college.

    Many barstool Pro Bowlers have similar dreams. The agent's first reaction
was skepticism.

   "I thought, 'Well, I'd like to play, too,' " Cornrich says. "But I have no
shot, and I'm probably a better athlete than you.' "

    Sunday in Super Bowl XXXIX, Neal will start at right guard for the New
England Patriots against the Philadelphia Eagles.

    It's the unusual tale of an athlete who never played college football but
used his talents on the wrestling mat to earn two NCAA titles for Cal
State-Bakersfield and win a 1999 world freestyle wrestling championship in
Turkey -- far from NFL glory.

    "I always thought I was going to be able to do it. Whether or not you get
the opportunity, that's another thing," says Neal, 28, who was a linebacker/
offensive lineman at San Diego High School.

   Neal had one precedent going for him. Carlton Haselrig, who won three NCAA
Division I wrestling titles at Pitt-Johnstown, did not play college football but
became a Pro Bowl guard for the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1992 before his career
was ended amid substance abuse problems.

    Through Cornrich -- who got over his initial doubts -- Neal found
opportunity with the Patriots, a team known for finding ways to find talent. He
has made the most of it despite shoulder injuries that set him back the past two
seasons.

   But to say he started from scratch is an understatement. Patriots coach Bill
Belichick recalls Neal's first training camp as a free-agent defensive end in
2001.

   "When I tell you he didn't know where the field was, he didn't know where the
field was," Belichick says. "He didn't know how to put his pads on. He didn't
know where to line up.  . . .  We're starting from below scratch."

   The 6-4 Neal has bulked up to about 300 pounds since his days as a 265-pound
international wrestler of the year in 1999.

   His bank account is heftier, too.

   A world champion wrestler can earn about $40,000 to $50,000 in bonuses and
training stipends from USA Wrestling and the U.S. Olympic Committee, according
to USA Wrestling. Win Olympic gold, which brings more bonuses, and it's about
$50,000-$60,000.

    Neal is making a base salary of $455,000 this year, not counting playoff
bonuses. After next season, he becomes a restricted free agent.

   "I've never really been about trying to get a big paycheck," he says. "I
wrestled for pretty much nothing, and football was always something I've dreamed
about doing."

   Leveraging his talent

   Wrestling develops skills that translate to football: leverage, balance,
explosion and hand fighting.

    Buck Rasmussen, a defensive lineman on the Patriots' practice squad and a
former state high school wrestling champ in Nebraska, sees that in Neal.

    "He uses leverage to his advantage a lot, body position and stuff like that.
. . .  Wrestling really helps," Rasmussen says.

    Top high school wrestlers in the upper weight classes, who excel at
football, typically forgo college wrestling. For Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray
Lewis, a two-time Florida wrestling champ in high school, it was all football at
the University of Miami.

    Neal had no big-time football offers after high school.

    After finishing fourth in California as a 189-pound senior, he opted to
wrestle at Division I Cal State Bakersfield, where he was 83-0 over his final
two seasons as a fast-growing heavyweight.

    In 2000, coming off arthroscopic shoulder surgery, Neal lost in the finals
of the Olympic trials to Kerry McCoy of Penn State. In 2001, Neal again lost to
McCoy in the world team trials.

   Thus the phone call to Cornrich.

   "I asked him if he'd played college football, and he said no," Cornrich says.
"Then I said, 'Well, what makes you think you'd be a suitable candidate to play
in the National Football League?' And he said he was a fairly good wrestler."

   Cornrich, a wrestling buff, realized the caller was actually Stephen Neal,
the name Neal typically uses and the heavyweight Cornrich had seen win his first
NCAA title, at Cleveland State.

   Cornrich had watched the tournament with former NFL players John Frank and
Kirk Loudermilk, who were impressed by Neal's explosiveness.

    "We're sitting there watching every one of his matches going, 'Gosh, this
guy could be a great NFL player,' " Cornrich says.

    After the call, Neal flew to Cleveland and joined Cornrich on a 5 a.m. drive
to Ohio State, where then-Buckeyes strength and conditioning coach Dave Kennedy
was working out players.

    Patriots linebacker Mike Vrabel was also there that day.

    Neal "showed up with a pair of wrestling shoes and some shorts and stuff,
and I said, 'Well, we have to get you outfitted to look like a football player,'
" Vrabel says.

    "I gave him some shoes and stuff, and from that first time he went and did a
drill you could see he had the potential."

    Cornrich, who describes himself as a "close friend" of Belichick and has
represented him on some matters, got Neal a tryout with New England. After
Belichick and player personnel boss Scott Pioli got a look, they signed him.

   Patriots believed in him

   The road to NFL success took many turns.

    As a defensive end, Neal was cut by the Patriots in late August of his first
camp. He spent most of that season on the practice squad of the Eagles,
switching to offensive line and learning as he went.

    The Patriots still had faith in him. On Dec. 12 of that season, New England
signed him to its roster. Although he was listed among the game inactives for
all three playoff games that season, he got a Super Bowl ring.

    Improving quickly in 2002, Neal started against Green Bay on Oct. 23 and
injured his shoulder.

    He had surgery and a later follow-up procedure that sidelined him for the
rest of 2002 and 2003 -- picking up another Super Bowl ring even though he again
spent the game in street clothes on the sideline.

    "I was kept around here for a few years and really given the opportunity,"
he says. "I came here (last season) and I watched some film and I talked to the
guys and tried to get better, improve."

    This year, Neal was promoted to a starting role for the third game.

    "It is a wonderful story about a guy that with hard work, dedication,
overcoming the setbacks of the injuries and the lack of playing experience, has
turned into, really, a good football player," Belichick says.

    The wrestling world hasn't forgotten him. USA Wrestling has featured a story
about Neal on its Web site. The National Wrestling Hall of Fame in Stillwater,
Okla., hopes to get one of his NFL jerseys.

    Mitch Hull, director of national teams for USA Wrestling, has talked to Neal
about that jersey for the wrestling hall.

    "I told him, 'Hey, if you have any contract problems, you can come back to
wrestling.  . . .  We've got $40,000 out there for you.' "

   Unlikely as that might seem, Neal says he just might return to the mat after
his NFL days are done.

    "I'd love to," he says. "The weight class is 263 pounds, and I'd like to get
my body back down to that weight.

    "I don't know. I might be too old by then. I might be too beat up. But it's
a dream."

   He already has fulfilled a few.

GRAPHIC: Starting from scratch: Guard Steve Neal (61) didn't know how to put his
pads on when he first joined the Patriots.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2005

                              167 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 2005, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: For once Owens does right thing

BYLINE: Name Here

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE

BODY:
JACKSONVILLE -- If he were Jerry Rice or Joe Montana or Brett Favre, Terrell
Owens would be fully healed by the warmth radiating from the myth-makers
wielding microphones and pens. Owens would be declared a throwback, a credit to
the Super Bowl, a living testament to the power of the human spirit.

   Better yet, he would've been lifted to the highest available media day peak:
Owens would've been called a gamer.

   But in the daily challenge confronting the sporting press -- to lionize or
not to lionize -- Owens will never score enough points. He presented Exhibit A
in the case against himself Tuesday, when he spent part of an hour needlessly
hitting more quarterbacks than Jevon Kearse has hit all year, flipping jabs at
Steve Young, Jeff Garcia and Kyle Boller. If Owens had a second hour at the
mike, he surely would've gotten around to sacking Y.A. Tittle.

   Tittle. Now there's an image that agrees with the accepted notions of NFL
toughness, the aging warrior on his knees, helmet off, blood flowing down his
face. Tittle did not deal in the currency of pompoms and Sharpies. He could've
never mocked and mimicked the herky-jerky gyrations of his generation's Ray
Lewis, for Chuck Bednarik was never one to dance.

   And yet as his Eagles prepare to face the Patriots, Owens is proving himself
as tough as any of those just-rub-some-dirt-on-it players who always made your
father's Sunday. Owens should be applauded for it, too. He's a New School star
with an Old School threshold for pain, and no taste-free ad with a towel-free
actress can detract from that.

   "I'm here, I'm going to play, and that's it," Owens said.

    Good for him. Even if he's 15 minutes out of the surgery performed on his
busted-up leg, Owens is doing the right thing.

   He's taping it up and giving it a go against the defending champs. Nothing
more American than that.

   "If you don't believe in miracles," Owens said, "just wait till Sunday."

    Mark Myerson, doctor, doesn't believe in miracles. Myerson tried to call a
T.O. on T.O., but perhaps Owens grasped the obvious: After his experience with
Grant Hill, Myerson wouldn't have cleared Owens to play with an ingrown toenail.

    The receiver knows his chiseled body better than any doctor, coach or
columnist, and the risk-reward question is his to answer. This isn't some
Olympic fraud or home-run-hitting cheat playing Russian Roulette with steroids
while going for the gold. Owens' drug of choice is Noni Juice (yes, Noni Juice).
He's making a perfectly legal and legitimate attempt to get healthy in time for
the biggest game of his life.

   Owens isn't trying to take a rocket-propelled ride across the Snake River
Canyon. He's only trying to play a violent game that he's mastered, and to play
it with an improving wheel he now likens to a sprained ankle. He doesn't have to
go again in Miami on Tuesday night, and then in San Antonio on Wednesday night,
the way Hill did during his series of comebacks and setbacks.

    Win, lose or drawn out on a stretcher, Owens will get more than five months
to recover before training camp. "If I reinjure it," he said, "it can be fixed."

   Hey, the man's no dummy. Owens knows what Curt Schilling did with his zombie
movie of an ankle. He knows what Michael Jordan did with the flu, what Kirk
Gibson did with that bat, what Willis Reed did with whatever virtue inspired him
to hobble down that Game 7 tunnel in the direction of Wilt the Stilt.

   But when Owens says, "I'm not using this game to enhance my profile," I
actually believe him, even if Owens swearing it isn't about his profile sounds
like Don King swearing it isn't about the money. Owens realizes this is likely
his once-in-a-career shot to win a ring.

   "If you think I'm going to be a decoy," Owens said, "good luck."

   He couldn't be a decoy if he tried. Owens can't help but command a diva's
dose of attention, whether he's navigating a secondary or working a microphone,
telling the world that the Ravens weren't worthy recruiters of his otherworldly
skills.

   Owens spent much of his media day session talking about God, who isn't known
to take Super Bowl sides. But the famed Voice of God, John Facenda, was a
Philadelphia guy all the way, and one who would've offered the proper Old School
respect for what Mr. New School, Terrell Owens, is trying to do.


   GRAPHIC: Ready: Terrell Owens figures he has nothing to lose by playing. "If
I reinjure it," he said, "it can be fixed."

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2005

                              168 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 2005, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: As Westbrook goes, so does Eagles offense Running back soars with
little fanfare

BYLINE: Skip Wood

BODY:
Brian Westbrook is all business -- in his vocation and his avocation.

   The former has him playing running back Sunday for the Philadelphia Eagles in
Super Bowl XXXIX, where he will face the New England Patriots and attempt to
befuddle the defense with a brand of run-and-catch excellence that's unmatched
in the NFL.

   The latter has him studying and admiring the intricacies of successful
business models, as befits a Villanova graduate with a degree in management
information systems, one who is intrigued by successful companies and how they
became that way.

    He fully expects the vocation and the avocation to eventually flip-flop.

    It has been that way since Westbrook was 6 and one of his lifelong friends,
Mac James, was 9. Playing sports always was a shared passion. But unlike James,
Westbrook also had passions for things such as manning the most successful
lemonade stand.

    "Even in college, when a lot of us would be talking about summer jobs like
camp counselors or doing offseason workout programs, Brian, he's talking about
going to work for Nasdaq for the summer," James says.

   Westbrook did just that.

   "Yeah," says James, who pauses, then chuckles, "Brian's always been a little
bit different in that regard."

   Not different, just practical. That's how Westbrook sees it.

   "Football is a sport where, like, you can get hurt one day and not have a job
tomorrow," says Westbrook, who was named Sunday to the Pro Bowl, replacing
injured Seattle Seahawks running back Shaun Alexander.

   "I mean, there's no guaranteed contracts, so you basically have to make the
most of what you have and the time that you have it. I think too many people in
this league kind of lose sight of what happens next."

   But for now, first Roman numeral things first.

   "It's just like in business," Westbrook, 25, says with a grin. "You have an
opportunity, and what you do will determine whether it succeeds or fails."

   When Correll Buckhalter tore up his right knee in this season's second
preseason game, the Eagles knew Westbrook would have to carry a greater load
than expected, and the third-year player succeeded with aplomb:

    * He had a career-high 812 rushing yards on 177 attempts in preventing
defenses from paying too much attention to quarterback Donovan McNabb and target
Terrell Owens.

    * Westbrook's career-high 73 catches, some from the wideout slot, were tops
in the league by a running back, as were his 703 receiving yards and six
touchdown receptions.

    * He became the primary target of defenses when Owens went down late in the
season. Yet he allayed fears the Eagles were cooked by rushing for 96 yards and
catching five passes for 39 yards in the NFC title game against the Atlanta
Falcons and contributing 117 total yards a week earlier against the Minnesota
Vikings.

    * He returned 20 punts in 2003, including two for touchdowns, but was kept
from that duty this season because of his increased workload. But Eagles coach
Andy Reid says Westbrook presents an intriguing option for Sunday.

   It's clear how much the Eagles missed Westbrook when he sat out last season's
playoffs after injuring his left arm in the final regular-season game. Duly
impressed is Patriots linebacker Willie McGinest.

    "Westbrook is definitely one of the key players on that offense," McGinest
says. "He's explosive and he has picked up a lot of the slack for a lot of the
other guys and is making it happen for them."

   Yet Westbrook does so without fanfare.

   "He never has," says his dad, Ron. "That's just not Brian. He might spike the
ball now and again, and that's about it, but it's sure not showboating. It's
really being humble and being proud to be where he is."

   Adds his mother, Zelda, "Brian remembers where he came from."

   Proving himself to the NFL

   Where Westbrook came from is Division I-AA Villanova and before that suburban
Washington, D.C., where he excelled in football and basketball for DeMatha
Catholic High School.

   Yet largely because of his height -- officially 5-10 but an inch or two
shorter during his recruitment period -- top-flight colleges demurred. So he
readily accepted the chance to play for 'Nova.

   James, who now owns a personal trainer business, believes the I-A snub might
have been for the best for his friend.

   "When we were growing up, it was never said that you couldn't do something,
especially because of your size, because we all believed otherwise," says James,
who, at 5-4, started at running back for three years at Salisbury (Md.) State.
"What he did at Villanova speaks for itself."

   Does it ever.

   Westbrook ran, caught and kick-returned his way into the I-AA record books.
His career 9,885 yards is a standard, as is his 1998 feat of contributing more
than 1,000 yards in both rushing and receiving.

   His coming-out party was in his sophomore year, against Big Brother, I-A
Pittsburgh. Westbrook supplied 428 all-purpose yards in the 48-41 loss to the
Panthers. He ran back a punt and a kickoff for scores and caught two touchdown
passes. "That," Westbrook's father says, "was the first day the NFL even dawned
on me, and Brian, too. But after that, you know, the talk started."

    It continued after Westbrook sat out the 1999 season, as a junior, with a
knee injury. As a senior, he was named the top player in I-AA.

   Rising stock? Well, no. The Eagles grabbed the crosstown kid with the 91st
overall pick.

   "When Brian looks within himself, he still feels he has something to prove,"
James says. "You know, he's too small, he came from a small college. I see that
even now. He just doesn't want to be the best back for the Eagles, he wants to
be the best in the NFL."

   Westbrook's take: "This is a business, so it's important that you try to be
the best you can be."

   Hoping for 'magic' in business

   And that means in any business.

   With credits logged toward a master's in business administration, a degree he
says he might complete before his football career is finished, Westbrook
definitely plans to enter the business sector.

    He admittedly wants to do so "to make a lot of money" but also to help folks
far less fortunate. That's one of the reasons he admires what former NBA great
Magic Johnson has done in the business world, with an emphasis on bringing
high-end retailers to low- to moderate-income areas.

    "His name brings in so much sponsorship dollars, and that's important, and I
'd like to be in that position myself one day," Westbrook says. "But that's a
prime example of what I want to do, which is helping other people while also
being successful in business."

   As a big-time buff of organized crime sagas, he's particularly drawn to Al
Pacino's Michael Corleone in The Godfather.

   "That," Westbrook says, "was a businessman. What he did was illegal, so that
's nothing to admire, but he did run a tight ship. Very detail-oriented. Knew
everything that was going on. Every little single detail. That way, if there was
a problem, he didn't have to have other people doing his business for him."

   Parallels to football? Does Westbrook's vocation enhance his future vocation?

   "Without a doubt," he says. "In both sectors, you have to win people over at
some point in time or you're not going to last.

   "And also, in sports and business, sometimes you have to take a calculated
risk. You have to ask yourself, 'Is it worth it for me to do this, that or the
other and how profitable will it be for me or the team -- or the business -- at
the end of the day?' "

    In this business model, the closing bell will clang sometime late Sunday.

   <coverfront1>Cover stor<KC,-80>y</coverfront1>

GRAPHIC: Go-to guy: While Terrell Owens got much of the attention, Brian
Westbrook, above, quietly had 73 catches, six of them for TDs, and 703 receiving
yards. Multi-threat: The Patriots will have to prepare a game plan that accounts
for Brian Westbrook's ability to rush and catch passes.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2005

                              169 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Food; F01

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Share And Beware;
What Cooks Do to Keep Recipes Close

BYLINE: Jane Mengenhauser, Special to The Washington Post

BODY:

   Newly married, Margaret Riley of Mount Vernon decided to bake oatmeal-raisin
cookies using her mother-in-law's recipe. But the first sharp, stingy bite
tasted nothing like Mom's sweets, a favorite dessert of the bridegroom.

   Of that ill-fated, handwritten recipe shared so many years ago, Riley soon
discovered that the measures of baking powder and baking soda had been
transposed. "It could have been an accident," she now says wryly. "But probably
not. My mother-in-law never cared much for me."

   Many a warm relationship has been cooled over a shared recipe. Rivalry,
rudeness, envy, embarrassment, regret, theft and sins of omission are included
in my own collection of "sharing" stories during my 46 years as a food
journalist. The request for a copy of a recipe is a compliment to the cook,
according to etiquette authority Peggy Post. Should you not care to share with
friends, she advises to say pleasantly, "I'm flattered, but I do not divulge it.
I'm sure you'll understand."

   They probably won't.

   Word of Riley's kitchen disaster never left her lips, least of all to her
mother-in-law. "When I was a lot younger, I was never confrontational," she
says. Approaching her 85th birthday in June, Riley's a bit feistier, and a
master baker whose cookies are in demand. She double-checks for accuracy when
she shares her culinary secrets -- a lesson learned in the art of sharing a
recipe.

    Even when it's a friendly transaction, culinary slips between a recipe
swapper and the "swapee" lurk with menacing significance. In "Let Us Eat Cake:
Adventures in Food and Friendship" (ReganBooks, 2003) author Sharon Boorstin
recalls how she misinterpreted a soup recipe her sister e-mailed to her. One of
the steps read, "2 big onions, cut in quarters and each quarter stuck with
cloves (6 to 8)."

   Boorstin interpreted that as six to eight cloves in each onion quarter. As
the soup bubbled away on the stove, her eyes streaming with onion tears, she
phoned her sister, Sheila: "Did you mean six to eight cloves per quarter onion?"
she asked. "Or six to eight cloves total?"

   Her sister did the math and shot back with, "You put 64 cloves into my
chicken soup?"

   Recently, the large Italian Trigiani family got together to chronicle their
culinary heritage in "Cooking With My Sisters: One Hundred Years of Family
Recipes, from Bari to Big Stone Gap" (Random House, 2004). Authors Adriana and
Mary Yolanda  Trigiani found it a wonderful, if trying, experience. In a radio
interview, Adriana told of recipes hidden from even the closest of relatives.
She told of "recipes in code" and quoted a family cook who said, "I will haunt
you if you give my recipe away." Yet another relative, when measuring out
ingredients, scolded others in the kitchen: "Don't watch!"

    But when someone wants a recipe, watch they will. Culinary sleuths have been
known to go through a cook's garbage and trash to find the key to the trophy
ingredient. Everyone loves a secret revealed.

   When Evelyn Cairns was food editor at the News-Herald in Southgate, Mich.,
she tried to obtain a recipe for a dish served at a local restaurant. "It's a
closely guarded secret," she was told by the owner. After reporting the rebuff
to her readers, several cooks who had worked at the restaurant, or knew someone
who did, responded by sending her eight different versions of the"secret" recipe
for Maurice salad (mayonnaise, egg yolks, grated onion, parsley, lettuce,
julienned ham, turkey breast, swiss cheese, gherkins). Each claimed her  recipe
was the real thing.

   Original recipes of some foodstuffs that are world-famous remain closely held
today, even in the age of Recipezaar.com, an online trove that includes
member-rated "copycat" concoctions of restaurant specialties and brand-name
condiments. The first written rendition of Sachertorte, a Viennese creation of
chocolate perfection, is reportedly stashed in a vault at the discretion of its
owner, Elisabeth Guertler, heiress to the Sacher fortune in Vienna.

   Auguste Escoffier, renowned Parisian chef, wasn't one to share his recipes,
either. He ran a maximum-security kitchen, zealously guarding the secrets of his
art.

    His sous-chefs were allowed to assist -- up to a point. Then came a demand
that they turn their backs while he added a little "something." Voilà, a
fabulous Escoffier dish, safe from duplication.

    In "Escoffier, Master Chef," author Margery Bartlett Sanger writes that on
Sarah Bernhardt's birthday, Escoffier would come to her suite to prepare a
simple supper of scrambled eggs, a favorite dish she considered unequaled
elsewhere. As the story goes, he assured her that the secret lay in the silver
omelet pan he brought with him from Paris. Bernhardt despised garlic but was
never wise to the fact that on the prongs of the fork with which Auguste stirred
her eggs, he had impaled a clove of the dreaded "stinking rose." Could it be
that recipes in Escoffier's "Le Guide Culinaire" contain sins of omission? It
could. The Master Chef was not, perhaps, the first -- nor the last -- to hold
fast a culinary secret.

   A safety-deposit box is where one creative cook should have stored a recipe
of her own creation. We met when I was judging a cook-off in 1980 and she was
not among the winners. The contestant had written her original recipe down in
detail on the inside cover of a family cookbook, as I recall, believing it would
be safe there. Unfortunately, when her husband left her, he took the car, the
family cat and all the cookbooks, including the one with "The Recipe"
handwritten on the flyleaf.

   Perhaps the underlying reason some home cooks refuse to share favorite
recipes has to do with convenience. When my husband needed to bring a dessert to
work for employee birthdays, retirements and such, I would send a chocolate cake
with chocolate frosting, baked in a 9-by-13 pan. It was dependable and easy to
make. Lots of folks asked for the recipe, but if I'd let it go, they would have
started to bring the cake in for special occasions as well.

   And I would have had to find one that was just as good.

   Alexandria resident and recipe trivia collector Jane Mengenhauser last wrote
for Food about bake sales.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              170 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Test for Mr. Bush

BODY:

     "DEMOCRATIC reformers facing repression, prison or exile can know: America
sees you for who you are -- the future leaders of your free country," President
Bush said in his inaugural address. "When you stand for your liberty we will
stand with you." It didn't take long for that promise to be tested. On Saturday
Egyptian police arrested and roughed up Ayman Nour, the dynamic young leader of
a new opposition party calling for liberal democracy in that strategic Middle
Eastern country. On Monday Mr. Nour was ordered to jail for 45 days on a
patently bogus charge of forgery. To Egyptians, his real offense was obvious:
offering a moderate democratic alternative to the corrupt dictatorship of
President Hosni Mubarak.

   So far, the Bush administration has responded in a way that backs up the
president's words. The State Department issued a statement calling Mr. Nour "one
of Egypt's most prominent opposition leaders," deploring his arrest and
mistreatment, and calling on the government to "reexamine the issue." In
private, U.S. officials forcefully raised the case with the Egyptian ambassador
in Washington, with the president's office and foreign and interior ministries
in Cairo, and with representatives of other Group of Eight  countries  that
joined the United States last year in an initiative to promote democracy in the
Middle East. A meeting of the G-8 and the Arab League is scheduled for March 1
in Cairo; that raises the possibility of a U.S. or Western snub of Egypt if Mr.
Nour is not released.

   In fact, Mr. Mubarak has handed Mr. Bush a golden opportunity. The
76-year-old strongman has been the staunchest opponent of U.S. calls for
political liberalization in the Arab world -- an intransigence that most of the
Egyptian elite plainly doesn't support. On the same day he dispatched his thugs
to beat and shackle Mr. Nour -- the day before Iraq's historic elections -- Mr.
Mubarak again hinted that he plans to extend his 24 years in office by  six more
years by running unopposed in a rigged "referendum" this fall.

    In standing up for Mr. Nour, Mr. Bush would be supporting homegrown
constitutional reform aimed at the creation of a parliamentary system of
government, to be chosen in a fully democratic election. A deputy in the
powerless Egyptian parliament for the past decade, the 40-year-old Mr. Nour
helped found the Tomorrow Party, which was legally registered just three months
ago. Since then he has issued an alternative constitution spelling out a new
democratic system and announced a goal of obtaining 1 million signatures from
Egyptians in support of it. He also supported a new protest movement called
Enough, whose name embodies its message to the Mubarak regime.

   Mr. Nour is no radical: He recently said he would support Mr. Mubarak for
another term as president if he first agreed to constitutional reform. Neither
is he a pet of the United States; he has been a sharp critic of U.S. aid
programs. He is the sort of "future leader" who Mr. Mubarak, and many critics of
Mr. Bush's pro-democracy policy, claim doesn't exist in Egypt: a secular
moderate capable of winning broad support. That, and not forgery, is what landed
him in jail -- and it is why the Bush administration has much to gain by
rallying to his side.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              171 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Help for Runaways and Parents

BODY:

   As a private investigator, I read with interest Avis Thomas-Lester's Jan. 18
Metro article, "Parents of Runaways Fend for Themselves."

   I have had scores of calls from parents of runaways, and my advice has always
been to report a missing person to the proper authorities and follow the
authorities' advice. The police may not have the resources for immediate
intervention; however, entering the runaway's name in the National Crime
Information Center database is critical. Having a name in that database has been
helpful when I have located a runaway and needed immediate police response.

   Parents who have followed these  recommendations and are still in distress
may want to consider an alternative I have used successfully. I approach the
runaway's peers as a private investigator, stressing that I'm not a police
officer. I offer a reward -- and usually find a taker  for $250 to $500 -- for
putting me in touch with the subject. I stress to the kids that they are not
snitches but that providing information  might save a life. A sincere promise of
anonymity, assurance that the individual is not in any trouble and my genuine
concern for the runaway's safety have often  gotten me an address and the
runaway.

   FRED OWEN

   Potomac Falls

   *

   Since 1991 Operation Runaway, a program run by Potomac Ridge Behavioral
Health Center, has teamed  with the Montgomery County Police and other community
agencies to provide free therapeutic services, education and advocacy  to help
reduce and prevent runaway behavior. Operation Runaway offers weekly support
groups for families and confidential counseling and evaluation.

   The Metro article  cited the need for runaway support services in Prince
George's County, but Operation Runaway provides 24-hour support to all runaways
and families, regardless of jurisdiction. For more information, call the 24-hour
hotline at 800-204-8600.

   HEATHER MacAULAY

   Program Manager

   Operation Runaway

   Rockville

   *

    I was distressed but not surprised to read that police could not help Tonya
Wingfield search for her 14-year-old daughter. While police may not be able to
respond immediately because of the sheer number of runaways, any teenage runaway
is in jeopardy because he or she doesn't know where to turn for help and is at a
high risk of being abducted, sexually assaulted, robbed, injured or killed.

    A resource for runaway teenagers is 800-SAY-TEEN. This crisis hotline is
based at an emergency shelter for teenagers in Fairfax County. The shelter is
open 24 hours  and operates at no cost to teenagers or their families. If the
young person is too far away to reach  the shelter, the staff will help  him or
her find another safe place.

    Parents of missing children can also  contact the hotline for assistance in
locating their child.

   JUDITH DITTMAN

   Executive Director

   Alternative House

   Vienna

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              172 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Leavitt Sees $60 Billion in Medicaid Savings

BYLINE: Ceci Connolly, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:

   New Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt said yesterday that $60
billion can be saved over the next decade in the Medicaid health program for the
poor by closing loopholes, prohibiting "accounting gimmicks" by states and
eliminating wasteful spending on items such as overpriced prescription drugs.

    In his first address as secretary, Leavitt sought to dispel fears that
President Bush is poised to cap federal spending on Medicaid. Leavitt said the
administration  will not limit spending on "mandatory" beneficiaries -- the
recipients who are guaranteed coverage under federal law.

   But left unsaid was what the administration intends for Medicaid's optional
patients and services, about two-thirds of all Medicaid spending.

   Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation, said that because children are the largest group of mandatory
beneficiaries, Leavitt's comments seemed to indicate "the potential goal here is
to reduce spending on the aged and people with disabilities, who tend to be
classified as optional and are the most expensive."

   In a speech to the World Health Care Congress here, Leavitt said he will
advocate home- and community-based health care for the elderly and disabled
rather than the more expensive nursing home care. Cracking down on middle-class
senior citizens who transfer assets to their children to qualify for Medicaid's
long-term care would save $4.5 billion over a decade, he said.

   Bush and the state governors are focused on Medicaid because it has grown
rapidly at a time when the federal government faces record deficits and states
are having trouble balancing their budgets.

   "There is a time in the life of every problem when it is big enough to see
but small enough to solve," Leavitt said. "For Medicaid, that window of
opportunity is upon us. The time to act is now."

    The federal-state health program gives states wide latitude in determining
income eligibility levels and types of care to be covered by Medicaid. Under
federal law, for example, prescription drugs are optional services, although
virtually every state provides free or discounted medications to Medicaid
beneficiaries.

   Covering more people and more services costs a state more money, but also
earns it more federal matching funds. The Medicaid rolls have swelled to 46
million people, and the program is projected to cost $324 billion this year.

   "Medicaid is not meeting its potential," Leavitt said. "It is rigidly
inflexible and inefficient. And, worst of all, it is not financially
sustainable."

    In Leavitt's confirmation hearing, however, Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) noted
that Medicaid costs have grown "mostly from an increase in enrollment," not
waste, fraud and abuse.

    Though he expressed sympathy with governors struggling to balance their
budgets, Leavitt repeatedly pointed the finger at state leaders who he said have
"resorted to a variety of loopholes and in some cases accounting gimmicks" to
siphon off an extra $40 billion in federal money over 10 years.

   Asked to name those states, Leavitt demurred, saying those types of "awkward
conversations are best conducted one-on-one."

   He promised aides would provide details on the $60 billion in savings. But a
staff e-mail later said only: "The estimated savings numbers used in the speech
are formal HHS estimates and can be attributed as such."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              173 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Metro;
In Brief

BODY:

     THE REGION

   Traffic will be restricted on streets surrounding the Capitol for President
Bush's State of the Union address tonight, U.S. Capitol Police announced.

   The Capitol square will be restricted to authorized pedestrians starting at 6
p.m.

   Police said the following areas will be closed from 7:30 to 11 p.m.: Second
Street between D Street NE and D Street SE; D Street between Second Street SE
and Washington Avenue SW; Washington Avenue SW between D Street SW and
Independence Avenue SW; Independence Avenue SW between Washington Avenue SW and
Third Street SW; Third Street between Independence Avenue SW and Constitution
Avenue NW; Constitution Avenue NW between Third Street NW and Louisiana Avenue
NW; Louisiana Avenue NW between Constitution Avenue NW and D Street NW; D Street
between Louisiana Avenue NW and Second Street NE.

   The speech is scheduled to begin at 9 p.m.

   VIRGINIA

   The Prince William Board of County Supervisors voted 6 to 2 yesterday to
approve the hiring of a county archaeologist to monitor the excavations and
surveys required of developers.

   The funding of the $50,000-plus position, which was cut several years ago
because of budget constraints, underscores the county's new efforts to preserve
its history. Currently, Prince William relies on the reports of archaeological
firms hired by developers to assess the historical significance of property
under development.

   The county-employed archaeologist will monitor private archaeologists and
will have the authority to order further exploration of sites, said Bob
Bainbridge, a county planner.

    Supervisor Corey A. Stewart (R-Occoquan) said he opposed the funding because
he believes developers should be financially responsible for the archaeological
surveys. Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville), who also cast a
dissenting vote, asked Bainbridge why the county did not hire a consultant to do
the job.

   Bainbridge said the county has found that archaeologists, who often work for
firms, are reluctant to criticize other firms.

   England's Prince William does not yet know whether he will accept an
invitation to attend next year's 275th birthday of Prince William County, the
Virginia community that bears the name of his seventh great-uncle, according to
a letter to county officials from his personal secretary.

   Prince William is unsure of what he will do after he graduates from St.
Andrews University this summer and does not want to commit to any engagements at
this time, secretary Helen Asprey wrote in response to an invitation from Board
of County Supervisors Chairman Sean T. Connaughton (R).

   MARYLAND

   A 15-year-old Montgomery County girl was reported missing yesterday after she
apparently left school without permission Monday, but authorities said they do
not believe she was abducted.

   Ayesha Loretta Richardson, a student at the Academy of the Holy Cross in
Kensington, was last seen about 9:15 a.m. Monday, moments after her mother
dropped her off at the school in the 4900 block of Strathmore Avenue. Police
said Ayesha's friends told the girl's mother that moments after arriving, Ayesha
went outside to use her cell phone, supposedly to call her mother about a book
she had forgotten in the car.

   Police said the girl's mother told authorities that she did not receive a
phone call from her daughter. They said that Ayesha's family, as well as county
detectives, have tried several times to reach the girl on her cell phone but
that there has been no answer.

   Police said someone reported seeing the girl at the Grosvenor-Strathmore
Metro station, not far from the school, shortly after she went outside to use
her phone.

   "We're looking at it as a possible runaway case," said Officer Derek Baliles,
a police spokesman. "At this point, we don't have any indication that foul play
is involved."

   Police asked anyone with information on her whereabouts to call them at
240-773-5400.

   The District

   The D.C. Council overrode a mayoral veto yesterday, then passed a bill that
addressed the mayor's concerns.

    Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) had vetoed a bill requiring police to
videotape interrogations of suspects because he felt it could make unrecorded
confessions inadmissible in court.

   Council members passed the original bill because they said police routinely
flout a law requiring the recording of confessions.

   As a compromise, the council yesterday passed emergency legislation
introduced by Vincent B. Orange Sr. (D-Ward 5) that would punish police officers
who do not record interrogations and make it harder for suspects to go free on
technicalities.

   Council members said the compromise will be included in permanent legislation
that will be considered later this year.

   Backers of a plan to legalize slot machines in the nation's capital have
spent nearly $1.7 million in pursuit of a spot on the D.C. ballot, including
nearly $300,000 for a last-minute petition drive over the Christmas holidays.

   According to documents filed late Monday with the D.C. Office of Campaign
Finance, a political action committee formed to promote the gambling initiative
has received $1.6 million since it was formed in April. The money came from a
group of St. Croix gambling promoters led by Shawn Scott, an entrepreneur who
has failed to obtain gambling licenses in five states.

   Last August, the D.C. Board of Elections and Ethics denied Scott and his
allies a spot on the 2004 ballot, saying a July petition drive had been marred
by fraud and forgery. In December, the group quietly revived its campaign,
paying petition circulators to collect additional signatures in hopes of
qualifying for the ballot in 2006.

   Elections board officials said the expenditure of funds months after the
board rejected the measure may have violated D.C. campaign finance laws.

   A hearing is set for Feb. 23.

    "The average Marine . . . will spend 13 weeks becoming a Marine. The members
of the band spend their whole life preparing."

    --  Marine Capt. John R. Barclay, executive assistant to the director of
U.S. Marine Band, the President's Own. --  Page A1

   Compiled from reports by staff writers Lori Montgomery, Nikita Stewart, Jamie
Stockwell and Eric Weiss.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              174 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 3065 words

HEADLINE: The Prosecutor Never Rests;
Whether Probing a Leak or Trying Terrorists, Patrick Fitzgerald Is Relentless

BYLINE: Peter Slevin, Washington Post Staff Writer

DATELINE: CHICAGO

BODY:

   If  Osama bin Laden ever stands trial, there's a prosecutor in Chicago
waiting to face him down. As a driven young lawyer in the 1990s, Patrick J.
Fitzgerald built the first criminal indictment against the man who would become
the world's most hunted terrorist. Both men have moved on, you might say, but
Fitzgerald still imagines that fantasy date before a judge.

    "If you're a prosecutor, you'd be insane if you didn't want to go do that,"
Fitzgerald says in the well-appointed conference room of the U.S. attorney's
office here. "If there was a courtroom and they said someone has to stand up and
try him, would I hesitate to volunteer? No. I'm not saying I'd be the best
person to try him at that point, but I'd be lying if I told you I wouldn't be
interested."

    A solidly built former rugby player who enjoyed getting muddy and bloody
well into his twenties, Fitzgerald is nothing but confident in his own skin.
Just as he does not fear bin Laden, he seems to fret little that he is now
tangling simultaneously with the Bush White House and the New York Times, two of
the nation's most powerful and privileged institutions.

    Fitzgerald, 44, is the special prosecutor investigating the leak of covert
CIA operative Valerie Plame's name to columnist Robert Novak. The gifted son of
an Irish doorman makes no bones about challenging the establishment. His office
is also prosecuting former Illinois governor George Ryan and loyal associates of
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley on influence-peddling and corruption charges.

    He sees his task as getting to the bottom of things in ways as creative as
the law allows. The law doesn't say you can't question a sitting president about
his contacts or an investigative reporter about confidential sources. So
Fitzgerald has done both, including quizzing Bush for more than an hour in the
White House last June. His assiduous demands for answers from journalists alarms
critics who believe he has created the greatest confrontation between the
government and the press in a generation.

    The Times editorial page has hammered Fitzgerald, saying that "in his zeal
to compel reporters to disclose their sources, Mr. Fitzgerald lost sight of the
bigger picture." His demand that Times reporter Judith Miller and Time magazine
correspondent Matthew Cooper be forced to testify prompted the paper to call the
case "a major assault" on relationships between reporters and their secret
sources, the very essence of reporting on the abuse of power.

    Fitzgerald is too politic to talk back, at least before he has wrapped up
the case. A federal appeals panel in Washington is due to rule any day on
whether the reporters must testify, and his work on the leak investigation is
not done. But he appears to wonder what the fuss is all about. He says freely
that he is zealous, a term he translates as passion within limits.

    James B. Comey, deputy attorney general and unofficial president-for-life of
the Pat Fitzgerald Booster Club, says no high-profile prosecutor ever provided
less evidence that he was "doing something wacky."

    "What's been interesting is seeing the media accounts and the columnists
portray him as some sort of runaway prosecutor. That makes me smile," says
Comey, who is largely responsible for Fitzgerald getting the Plame assignment.
"Because there is no prosecutor who is less of a runaway than this guy."

    Fitzgerald frequently makes crime-fighting headlines in Chicago, where he
took over the U.S. attorney's office just 10 days before 9/11. What's surprising
is that he got the job at all. A New Yorker born and bred, Fitzgerald knew
hardly a soul in Chicago, which was precisely the idea. Sen. Peter Fitzgerald
(no relation) was looking for an outsider to battle the state's notoriously
corrupt political apparatus.

    The recently retired Illinois Republican tells a story about back in Al
Capone's day, when Col. Robert McCormick, the imperious publisher of the Chicago
Tribune, called FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover and demanded that he send someone
to Chicago who could not be bought.

    Hoover sent the untouchable Eliot Ness.

    Now, as then, the U.S. attorney's job has the gloss of patronage. The late
Chicago mayor Richard J. Daley used to say the U.S. attorney in Chicago is one
of the three most important people in the state, and Peter Fitzgerald said he
wanted "someone who couldn't be influenced either to prosecute someone unfairly
or protect someone from being prosecuted unjustly."

    So the senator, who as the state's senior Republican had the right to
recommend a candidate to the White House, went to one of Hoover's successors for
advice.

    "I called Louis Freeh and said, 'Who's the best assistant U.S. attorney you
know of in the country?' He said, 'Patrick Fitzgerald in the Southern District
of New York.' " The senator then called Mary Jo White, who ran the New York
office. Same question. Same answer.

    At the time, Patrick Fitzgerald was trying suspects in the 1998 bombings of
the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. He thought the call from a senatorial
aide was a practical joke by one of his buddies. But as soon as their interview
was over, the senator knew he had his man.

    "I thought, 'He is the original Untouchable,' " Peter Fitzgerald says. "You
could just see it in his eyes that he was a straight shooter. There were no
levers that anyone had over him. He had no desire to become a partner in a
private law firm. He has no interest in electoral politics. He wanted to be a
prosecutor."

   For years, Fitzgerald has avoided receiving mail at his apartment because of
the threat of a letter bomb from one murder-minded defendant or another.

    The staff of the 9/11 commission called him one of the world's best
terrorism prosecutors. He convicted Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman in the 1993 World
Trade Center bombing and all four defendants in the embassy bombings, which had
left 224 people dead. He extracted a guilty plea from Mafia capo John Gambino
and became an authority on bin Laden, whom he indicted in 1998 for a global
terrorist conspiracy that included the African bombings.

   "His thoroughness, his relentlessness, his work ethic are legendary," says
terrorism expert Daniel Benjamin, a former member of the National Security
Council.

    Seeing Fitzgerald in action, says Los Angeles lawyer Anthony Bouza, a
college classmate, is "like watching a sophisticated machine." Colleagues speak
in head-shaking tones of Fitzgerald's skills in taking a case to trial. A Phi
Beta Kappa math and economics student at Amherst before earning a Harvard law
degree in 1985, he has a gift for solving puzzles and simplifying complexity for
a jury.

   He's no slouch at stagecraft, either. At the trial of a Mafia hit man,  the
defense argued that a ski mask -- part of what Fitzgerald called a "hit kit"
that included surgical gloves, a gun and hollow-point bullets -- was really just
a hat. (The defense also said the surgical gloves were for putting ointment on
the defendant's ailing dog.) During closing arguments, Fitzgerald startled the
jury by rolling up one leg on his lawyerly dark suit.

    "These are just shorts, ladies and gentlemen," he said, according to one
account. "These are just shorts."

    People who know Fitzgerald describe him as anything but a stuffed shirt.
During a key moment in one New York trial, he slipped a note to his co-counsel,
who interrupted questioning to read it to himself. It said, "Is there beer in
the fridge?"

   Fitzgerald's parents, born on opposite sides of Ireland's County Clare, met
in the United States. They raised their son in Flatbush and guided him to a
scholarship at a Jesuit high school. He worked as a school janitor in Brooklyn
to make money for college and spent summers opening doors at an upscale co-op
building on East 72nd Street in Manhattan. (His father worked at a building on
East 75th, just off Madison Avenue.) It is part of Fitzgerald lore that he bit
his tongue when rich apartment dwellers talked down to him as "just the doorman.
"

    After law school, he spent three years in private practice before fleeing to
the prosecution side. In the New York days, his married friends chided him about
his workaholic, overachieving, hopelessly bachelor life. One time, visiting the
small Brooklyn studio where Fitzgerald lived, a lawman noticed papers piled on
the gas stove. Don't worry about the fire hazard, Fitzgerald told him -- "I've
never turned it on."

   "The advantage he had over me," Comey says, "was he was much smarter and he
had no life. He could sit there and never go home. Fitz would go in there and
just sit and read through files. It would almost be as if he was photographing
them."

    Fitzgerald did get out to exercise, and he even learned to scuba dive, an
image his friends still cackle about.

    "I'm certified as a scuba diver, but I can't really swim," Fitzgerald
explains. "I'm very good at sinking."

    Above all, Fitzgerald, who is 6 feet 2 and weighs 215 pounds, played rugby,
a sport defined by toughness and camaraderie. He played at Amherst, at Harvard,
and for several years in Manhattan. "You get every stress out of your system.
You kick the ball, catch the ball, tackle, be tackled. At the end of the game,
there's no unspent energy left. I did get bloodied a fair amount."

    He adds, "That was not the goal."

   Fitzgerald is careful to be apolitical in his targets and his public life
alike. He registered to vote as an Independent in New York, only to discover,
when he began receiving fundraising calls, that Independent was a political
party. He re-registered with no affiliation, as he did later in Chicago.

    He spit fire last year when reporters asked whether the racketeering
indictment of Muhammad Hamid Khalil Salah, a fundraiser for the Islamic militant
group Hamas, was timed to boost President Bush's reelection campaign. The case
was trumpeted first by Attorney General John Ashcroft.

   "I am not running for an election. I'm not part of a political party,"
Fitzgerald said at the time. "The election is irrelevant to this case. The
reason we brought this case now is we're ready to proceed."

    Nor has Fitzgerald signaled where his own ambitions lie. He insists that he
has already advanced further than his imaginings, but he is clearly aware of his
emerging star status. Asked about the notion of becoming FBI director after
Robert Mueller, another prosecutor who quit private practice to put bad guys
behind bars, he laughs. "That's probably Director Mueller when he's having a bad
day, trying to unload it on somebody else."

   He did not say he was uninterested, just that he is not thinking beyond his
current job.

   In the high-profile Chicago job, he still works killer hours and he chairs
the attorney  general's advisory panel on terrorism. And while he will not
publicly discuss details of love, politics or religion, others say his social
life has improved, along with his apartment. "It's a really nice place. My wife
walked in and said, 'I know Pat's got a girlfriend,' " says Comey. "Fitz wouldn
't know eggshell from burnt orange, but he's got a life."

   Fitzgerald says he remembers where he came from and pinches himself when he
realizes where he is.

    "I'm very indebted to my parents. They were very hardworking, straight,
decent people. The values we grew up with were straight-ahead. We didn't grow up
in a household where people were anything but direct," Fitzgerald says. "I'm
hoping that if you're a straight shooter in the world, that's not that
remarkable."

   Try telling that to the publisher of the New York Times.

   Arthur Sulzberger Jr., defending his reporters, blasted Fitzgerald and said,
"The government's investigation into the Valerie Plame case has moved
dangerously off course." Not only has the liberal editorial page sliced into
Fitzgerald, but conservative columnist William Safire called Fitzgerald a
"runaway Chicago prosecutor" and warned that a pair of his investigations are
"this generation's gravest threat to our ability to ferret out the news."

   President Richard Nixon kept an enemies list and waged an epic fight over the
publication of the Pentagon Papers, settling only when the Supreme Court backed
the right of The Washington Post and New York Times to publish. Not a few
presidents have tried, usually fruitlessly, to identify leakers and punish the
reporters all too glad to publish those leaks.

   But Fitzgerald has ignored the old saw about arguing with someone who buys
ink by the barrel. In both the Plame case and an unrelated terrorism
investigation, he is trying to force Times reporters to reveal their
confidential sources, a quinella not attempted in modern memory.

   "In all his cases, Pat keeps the blinders on and goes forward to where the
facts lead him," says David Kelley, the acting U.S. attorney in New York and
former head of the Justice Department's 9/11 Task Force. "He is not influenced
by anything except by those things that ought to influence him. I wouldn't call
it zeal. I would call it courage."

   Many legal experts say Fitzgerald has the law on his side in the Plame
investigation. The Supreme Court ruled narrowly in 1972 that reporters could be
required to testify to a grand jury if the prosecutor proved a legitimate need.

   Chief U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan backed Fitzgerald and ordered Miller
and Cooper to testify. Fitzgerald's tactics are not "a fishing expedition or an
improper exercise of prosecutorial authority," he said.

   Zeal or courage? Where one side sees dangerous meddling, another sees
creativity. The divergent takes are evident in the Plame investigation, a quest
to find out who leaked her name and why. Faced with confidentiality pledges that
reporters consider sacrosanct, Fitzgerald got one source, vice presidential
Chief of Staff I. Lewis Libby, to grant journalists a limited release from their
confidentiality pledge.

   Reporters, including two from The Washington Post, ultimately answered a
narrow list of questions regarding their conversations with Libby. One
Fitzgerald backer called it "elegant thinking that I would expect from him." But
some journalists worried that a secret source brave enough to expose wrongdoing
could now be pressured by prosecutors to reveal his cooperation with reporters.

   Even more troubling to many press analysts is Fitzgerald's effort to review
the telephone records of Miller and fellow Times reporter Philip Shenon in
another case. The prosecutor wants to know how the Times learned of the
impending search of two Islamic charities then under investigation by Fitzgerald
's office. The Times called the charities for comment, allegedly alerting them
to the raid, Fitzgerald says.

   In a recent court hearing, Fitzgerald told U.S. District Judge Robert W.
Sweet that he is sensitive to First Amendment concerns. He said the reporters
are not his targets: "We want to find out who leaked national security
information."

   Times attorney Floyd Abrams countered, "If we start down the road of
permitting a federal prosecutor to obtain secret information without which
journalists cannot function, the world will change for the worse because
confidential sources will no longer be available."

   The Chicago Tribune, which has cheered Fitzgerald's crime-fighting energy,
published a Jan. 23 editorial titled "Mr. Fitzgerald, Back Off." It called his
pursuit of the reporters "a direct affront" to the First Amendment rights of the
free press.

   Of the prosecutor's assertions of sensitivity, the paper scoffed, "That's
rubbish."

   "Do I have zeal? Yes. I don't pretend I don't," Fitzgerald says. "As a
prosecutor, you have two roles: Show judgment as to what to go after and how to
go after it. But also, once you do that, to be zealous. And if you're not
zealous, you shouldn't have the job. Now sometimes 'zealous' becomes a code word
for overzealous and I don't want to be overzealous. I hope I'm not."

   Media advocacy circles are not the only places where Fitzgerald's enthusiasm
has been noted with alarm. In an unusually bitter fight that surfaced in late
January, Fitzgerald drew angry criticism from a Chicago federal judge who said
one of Fitzgerald's attorneys improperly delivered secret grand jury material to
a private attorney in a civil case.

   U.S. District Judge James F. Holderman demanded an investigation of
Fitzgerald and several prosecutors. Fitzgerald blazed back, charging in an
unusually pointed brief that the judge had "displayed a disturbing lack of
objectivity." He accused him of "petty harassment" of prosecutors and asked an
appeals court to remove the judge from the case because of a conflict of
interest involving his wife.

   The question of zeal surfaced yet more prominently in two Chicago terrorism
cases -- investigations into the Global Relief and Benevolence International
foundations, which inspired a less than flattering analysis by the 9/11
commission staff.

   The staff report last year said the federal government's treatment of the two
charities raised "substantial civil liberty concerns" and revealed a critical
difference between asserting "links" to terrorists and proving concrete support.
In the case, Fitzgerald again had the backing of Ashcroft, who jetted to Chicago
in October 2002 with a  media contingent in tow and vowed to halt "the source of
terrorist blood money."

    But the trial judge and the 9/11 commission staff concluded that Fitzgerald
failed to prove that Enaam Arnaout, the Benevolence executive director, had
provided financial support to al Qaeda, as the indictment had alleged. A federal
judge, referring to the prosecution's evidence, said the defendant appeared
primarily a victim of guilt by association.

   On the day the trial was to begin, Arnaout pleaded guilty to a fraud charge.
Judge Suzanne Conlon made clear in ordering Arnaout to prison for 11 years that
he had not been convicted of a terrorism crime.

   Fitzgerald said in the interview that he is not disappointed by the plea
bargain that ended the case, only by what he considers Arnaout's later failure
to tell what he knows. Of Conlon, he said, "She thought we hadn't connected the
dots. I thought we had."

    "When you're a pitcher, you throw the ball over the plate and if you think
you threw a strike and the umpire says it's a ball, it doesn't matter how much
you think it's a strike. You put your case on. You don't walk into court out of
fear that when you do it, either a judge will disagree with some of what you say
or a defense attorney will call you overzealous."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              175 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: D.C. Area Tops in Fraud Complaints;
Reports to FTC Up 17% Nationwide in 2004

BYLINE: Jonathan Krim, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:

   If the number of complaints received by the Federal Trade Commission are any
guide, consumers nationwide, and particularly in the Washington metropolitan
area, are getting little relief from  fraud and Internet-related crime.

   According to an FTC report released yesterday, residents of the Washington
region -- including parts of Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia -- led the
nation's metropolitan areas last year in filing consumer fraud complaints to the
agency.

    Topping the list were reports of fraudulent Internet auctions. Others
included complaints about shop-at-home and catalogue sales, Internet services
and computers, foreign-money offers and prizes and lotteries.

   Separately, the agency catalogued increasing numbers of complaints about
identity theft, which occurs when a consumer's financial accounts or credit are
compromised by someone using stolen personal data to pretend to be the consumer.
The Phoenix metropolitan area led the nation in complaining about these crimes
to the agency.

   Overall, the FTC took in 635,173 fraud and identity theft complaints last
year, an increase of 17 percent from 2003 and 57 percent from 2002. Those filing
the complaints estimated that fraud cost them  $548 million, the report said.

   Officials were quick to note that more complaints does not necessarily mean
more crime.

   Betsy Broder, assistant director for planning and information, said that the
FTC has been actively publicizing its complaint database, which is then used by
the agency and law-enforcement agencies to develop cases against scam artists.

    But the FTC data tracks closely with other law enforcement and
computer-security surveys, which generally show Internet-related crime growing
in volume and sophistication.

   For example, "phishing" schemes -- in which computer users are induced to
provide financial information or other private data by fraudulent e-mail or Web
sites that seem to be from legitimate companies -- are a continuing problem.

    According to the industry-sponsored Anti-Phishing Working Group, the number
of e-mail phishing attacks  grew by an average of 38 percent a month over the
last six months of 2004.

   Meanwhile, Internet auction fraud accounted for 71 percent of complaints
referred to the Internet Fraud Complaint Center, a joint effort of the FBI and
the National White Collar Crime Center.

   Although identity theft complaints rose for the third straight year at the
FTC, Broder said complaints about new accounts being opened by criminals in the
name of innocent consumers declined. Those accounts, and the damage they can
inflict on consumers' creditworthiness, are the hardest to detect and resolve,
she said. Complaints about money being siphoned out of existing accounts,
however, more than doubled from 2002.

   The agency received 184 consumer fraud complaints for every 100,000 residents
in the Washington region, compared with 172 per 100,000 residents in Silicon
Valley, which came in second. At the bottom of the list of metropolitan areas,
at 90 complaints per 100,000 citizens, was the Memphis area.

   Broder said there might be more complaints locally because the commission is
better known here, especially among federal employees.

    Nationwide, the agency logged a total of 388,603 fraud complaints, an
increase from previous years. Of those, 205,568 were Internet-related.

    More than half the complaints were registered by people between the ages of
18 and 39.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              176 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Merger Bells About to Ring For MCI?;
Analysts Predict Suitors Will Seek Ashburn Telecom's Hand

BYLINE: Yuki Noguchi, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:

   AT&T Corp.'s $16 billion merger with SBC Communications Inc. has turned Wall
Street's eyes again to MCI Inc., one of the few telecommunications companies
left without a partner and already the subject of unsuccessful takeover talks at
least twice.

   Ashburn-based MCI is smaller than AT&T, but the companies have suffered
similar problems in recent years as their core business of providing telephone
service became less relevant and profitable in a changing industry.

    Both made their names as major consumer brands offering residential
long-distance service, but they shed much of that retail trade in favor of
larger business clients. Both operate global networks, but they don't sell
wireless or video service, two of the fastest-growing areas in the
telecommunications industry. The two have been allies in recent regulatory
battles against the regional phone companies, and both are trying to shore up
eroding sales by focusing on selling phone and Internet service to business and
government customers.

   With AT&T at the altar, MCI is expected to follow.

   "They really can't remain independent any longer," said Michael H. Salsbury,
who was general counsel of MCI (then known as WorldCom Inc.) until 2002 and is
now an attorney at Chadbourne & Parke LLP. SBC needs AT&T for its large
corporate customer base, and AT&T needs SBC in order to survive, he said. "[The
SBC-AT&T merger] means ultimately MCI will get acquired. It's just a question of
price."

   The name that surfaces most often as a potential suitor: Verizon
Communications Inc.

   "[Verizon] doesn't have the business customers," and MCI is an easy way into
that market, said Susan Kalla, an analyst with Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co.
It would take as long as five years to build a network and cultivate major
corporate clients, she said.

   Verizon, like SBC, is a regional phone company, and it dominates in the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic areas where it has been providing local phone service
for over a century.

   Verizon and SBC are both expanding their business into new technologies and
bigger markets. Verizon owns 55 percent of Verizon Wireless, and SBC owns 60
percent of Cingular Wireless LLC. Both companies sell long-distance calling and
high-speed Internet service, and they are spending billions to build fiber-optic
networks with the intention of competing against cable companies by getting into
the video-television business.

   The wild card in any potential deal is timing. Some analysts say Verizon
could act within a few weeks to try to seal a deal with MCI. Others say Verizon
could wait several months to gauge how regulators react to the SBC-AT&T deal,
and to allow MCI's sales to erode further to discount its price. BellSouth
Corp., another regional phone company, could also make an offer for MCI, Wall
Street analysts said.

   Unofficially, MCI has been trying to sell itself for about a year, analysts
and one executive at the company have said. It entered negotiations with SBC
last year, but the deal failed after the companies couldn't agree on a price,
according to a source familiar with those talks. In September, buyout firm
Leucadia National Corp., after announcing an interest in acquiring MCI, instead
sold its 5 percent stake.

    MCI reported $22 billion in profit in 2003 on $27 billion in revenue. Most
of that profit came from shedding its debt through bankruptcy proceedings. The
company's stock closed up 1 percent, at $19.54 yesterday. At market's close, its
value on Wall Street was $6.2 billion. It employs 41,000 people worldwide.

   Spokesmen from Verizon and MCI declined to comment on merger speculation.

   But MCI is also tarnished by a massive WorldCom accounting scandal that
continues to put it in the headlines. Former chief executive Bernard J. Ebbers
is on trial in New York, charged with conspiracy, securities fraud and filing
false documents with securities regulators.

   That's also what makes it hard to determine a fair price for the company,
said some.

   "What do you get with it? What do you inherit?" are key questions for any
company considering buying MCI, said Muayyad Al-Chalabi, managing director of
research firm RHK Inc., based in South San Francisco. MCI, because of WorldCom's
many acquisitions, is still a mess of unintegrated networks and software systems
that will be a heavy burden for any buyer acquiring the company, he said. "The
inefficiency of operations is a major hurdle."

   Because of MCI's complications, some believe Verizon is likelier to bid for
Sprint, even though that company has already agreed to merge with Reston-based
Nextel Communications Inc. for $35 billion.

   "Verizon would be more inclined to make a run at Sprint," even if it means
paying the $1 billion fee to break up its deal with Nextel, said F. Drake
Johnstone, an analyst with Davenport & Co. in Richmond. Sprint is the No. 3
player in the all-important wireless business, and its mobile phones use the
same technology as those on the Verizon Wireless network, he said, although a
deal between Verizon and Sprint could also pose more problems with regulators.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              177 of 182 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post

                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: Sports; D01

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Redskins Drop Payment Policy;
Team Credit Card No Longer Required

BYLINE: Thomas Heath, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:

   The Washington Redskins said yesterday they would no longer require season
ticket holders who buy their seats with a credit card to use a Redskins Extra
Points MasterCard, dropping a policy the team had announced only a week ago.

    An official with the credit card company said it had asked the Redskins to
drop the requirement and to allow Redskins fans to use any MasterCard when they
buy their seats, and that the team had agreed. MasterCard generally does not
allow merchants to accept only one type of its co-branded or affinity cards over
others, the official said.

    The NFL Extra Points program, under which the NFL's 32 teams issue credit
cards with their names on it, "is a new program, and while we have not made any
determination that [the Redskins] were in violation of the rules or not, we have
asked them to accept all MasterCard cards," said MasterCard spokesman Chris
Monteiro. "They have agreed to do so and they will accept all kinds of
MasterCards for this purchase."

    Redskins spokesman Michael Sitrick said that "although the Redskins do
believe they were in compliance, at MasterCard's request they have agreed as an
accommodation to accept all brands of MasterCard for payments of general
admission tickets, and not just Redskins' brand MasterCards."

   The requirement that fans use a Redskins credit card, which would have
affected those buying tickets to FedEx Field's 66,500 regular admission seats,
was announced last week in a letter to season ticket holders. Since 2000,
Redskins fans have been able to use any credit card to buy their seats, and have
always been able to pay by cash or personal check. The team will continue to
accept cash or checks, as well as any type of MasterCard, for seats next season.

   Some officials in the credit card industry had noted that the Redskins'
requirement that fans use only the Redskins Extra Points Card was highly
unusual. Visa International, in addition to MasterCard, does not allow merchants
to restrict their acceptance of one type of card over another.

   "This would have been a break with tradition," said David Robertson,
publisher of the Nilson Report, a credit card industry newsletter. "For 50
years, there has been no discrimination for purchases of goods and services
depending on what bank issued you the card."

   Redskins chief operating officer David Pauken said last week that the new
Extra Points program, in which each dollar charged to the MasterCard earns
cardholders points that can be redeemed for Redskins jerseys and souvenirs as
well as such things as seat upgrades, was put in place this offseason to ease
the ticketing process.

    The effect of the Extra Points card on the team's profitability would be
minimal, according to the Redskins. The Extra Points cards, issued by league
sponsor MBNA Bank, help market the club's brand and allow the team to track its
customers' spending habits, allowing more targeted advertising.

   Redskins owner Daniel Snyder has earned a reputation as one of professional
sports' most astute marketers, turning the Redskins and FedEx Field into one of
the biggest revenue generators in the sports world. Since buying the team for
$800 million in 1999, Snyder had boosted the stadium's capacity to 91,665, the
largest in the NFL. He has opened a dozen team retail stores throughout the
region, started a lucrative TailGate Club and added other revenue generators to
the stadium and club brand over the years.

   The Redskins are one of the most financially successful teams in sports, with
a resale value estimated by some at $1 billion and an operating income of $70
million for the 2003 season, according to Forbes magazine.

    The Redskins said yesterday that some fans may have misunderstood last week
's mailing announcing the MasterCard Extra Points program to say that the ticket
purchases on the credit card would be accompanied by a 3 percent transaction
fee. That fee does not apply to MasterCard credit card holders.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              178 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 167  words

HEADLINE: Suspected robbers' rampage foiled

BODY:

   Detectives believe they have cracked an armed robbery gang that planned to
hold up three TAB agencies within a week.

   Inglewood detectives raided two Perth homes yesterday morning and uncovered a
mud map detailing getaway routes from the agencies and a hand-written note
warning that a robbery was in progress and that the bandits were heavily armed.

   Detectives raided the homes as part of an investigation into three recent
robberies. Two men, whose names were not released, have been charged with three
counts of aggravated armed robbery.

   The West Australian understands one of the bandits, aged 27, was recently
released from prison and was on parole for similar crimes.

   It will be alleged that the men first struck at a Midland pharmacy on January
15. The next day, the bandits targeted the Bassendean TAB and six days later
robbed the Inglewood TAB.

   Detectives found a meat cleaver and a knife allegedly used in the robberies,
clothing used to mask the bandits' faces and a sports bag used to carry cash.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              179 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 656  words

HEADLINE: Seven fires with the big guns

BYLINE: PAM CASELLAS

BODY:

   This week, so far, has been a great and glorious one for Seven. It started in
a dream with Lleyton Hewitt and Marat Safin drawing about 400,000 viewers in
Perth and continued on Monday night when another massive number dropped in to
watch the first episode of the much-applauded Desperate Housewives.

   The series peaked at 331,000 viewers, well ahead of Nine's new episode of
Cold Case and Ten's new episode of Law and Order. Naturally, this fills Seven
with confidence that, finally, it might be set for a good start to the year.

   There was further good news for Seven when The Great Outdoors dealt a blow to
the first episode of Nine's new series, StarStruck, relegating it to second
place ahead of Ten's Nanny reunion special (which was only just ahead of the ABC
's very fine Altered Statesmen series, on Anthony Eden).

   There was not a lot to get excited about with StarStruck, though it was
generally inoffensive. The idea of people being transformed into the star of
their dreams, and performing before a huge audience is different enough to lend
it some charm. It's difficult to predict how it will develop as an audience
grabber - after all, Dancing with the Stars was one of the clumsiest and most
inept pieces of television we've seen in a long time, and look how well that one
did.

   Nine increases the pressure tomorrow night with new episodes of ER. The
difficulty that fine series faces, however, is that it must battle Seven's other
big gun for the year, Lost. Does ER still have enough appeal, all these years
on, to deflect any damage from Lost? I doubt it - and that from one of ER's most
devoted fans.

   Lost is another program that Seven has been flogging to death at every
opportunity. There won't be a person around not at least familiar with the name.
And if they tune in tomorrow, they will find themselves hard-pressed to resist
the next episode.

   Think Survivor, but this time it's "real". The survivors, 48 of them, are
from a plane that blew apart in mid-air. How they cope with their peril is what
keeps the series grounded. There are personality and cultural differences. Some
of the survivors are leaders and others are takers, some only care for
themselves. But if they are to stay alive, they have to work together to defeat
not only their shortcomings but the threats posed by the island on which they
find themselves.

   It's compulsive stuff and the good cast is headed by Matthew Fox. You
remember him - he was the oldest brother in the teen hit, Party of Five. Others
are less recognisable but perhaps even better credentialled.

   Amid all this excitement as television returns to its normal competitive
self, one program managed to lose itself - the ABC's telemovie, Hell Has Harbour
Views, on Sunday night. It landed in one of the toughest timeslots of the year,
hard on the heels of Seven's tennis and against Nine's one-day cricket between
Australia and Pakistan.

   That was unfortunate because it was a very good piece of work. Matt Day was
excellent as the lawyer trapped on the corporate treadmill, an effective mix of
idealism, pragmatism and simple ambition. It was well-paced and beautifully
directed and the device of using a narrator, sometimes questionable, worked
well.

   The opening, however, was plain silly, relating not at all to the action and
so confusing that it probably sent non-cricket viewers straight to the repeat of
Four Weddings and a Funeral.

   And, finally, isn't Seven lucky that Bec Cartwright has a role in Home and
Away? She was a highlight of the last series of Dancing With the Stars and doesn
't turn up to work each day on rival Ten's Neighbours set. We might not have
seen so much of her during the tennis had her screen home been in Erinsborough
and not Summer Bay.

   A column last week about the departure of Steve Liebmann from the Today show
said that he had had "a convenient heart scare". He assures me that his scare
was very real and far from convenient and I apologise for any offence.

GRAPHIC: Matt Day.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              180 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 302  words

HEADLINE: Pain drug linked to suicides

BYLINE: CATHY O'LEARY

BODY:

   Australia's drug watchdog will review the safety of more pain-killers after
British authorities moved to withdraw a common drug linked to accidental
overdose and suicide.

   A spokeswoman for the Therapeutic Goods Administration said the group would
re-examine the safety of drugs related to co-proxamol, a combination of
paracetamol and dextropropoxyphene, a narcotic.

   The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in Britain has
announced it will phase out the drug because of the high number of deaths
associated with it.

   The prescription-only drug, used by thousands of people for conditions such
as arthritis and back pain, is sold in Britain as Dolgesic and Distalgesic. It
is estimated to have caused up to 400 deaths a year in Britain by accidental and
intentional overdosing.

   In Australia, dextropropoxyphene, or DXP, is sold under brand names including
Doloxene, Digesic, Capadex and Paradex and is sometimes combined with
paracetamol to increase its effectiveness.

   The TGA spokeswoman said the drug had been reviewed in Australia about two
years ago and a decision was made to limit the size of packets and include
warnings to prescribing doctors.

   "When the TGA looked at it there was the option to deregister it but it was
decided to educate doctors and to take steps to restrict its use," she said. "In
light of the UK decision we may need to look at it again."

   Australian Medical Association WA president Paul Skerritt, who is a
psychiatrist, said DXP had the same history of many pain-killers in not living
up to expectations. There were potential side effects with DXP and it was not
even a particularly effective pain-killer.

   "It came out as wonder drug that wasn't addictive when really it's not all
that good," he said. "As a pain-killer, codeine is probably far better, cheaper
and non-addictive."

GRAPHIC: No wonder drug: AMA State president Paul Skerritt says DXP has not
lived up to expectations as a pain-killer.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              181 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 394  words

HEADLINE: Male MPs told to butt out of abortion debate

BYLINE: KATE GAUNTLETT; BEN RUSE

BODY:

   CANBERRA

   Some male politicians had become too focused on women's reproductive health
and should turn their attention to men's health problems, WA Liberal Senator Sue
Knowles said yesterday.

   Her criticism came after Nationals Senator Ron Boswell and a powerful
alliance of religious leaders reignited the abortion debate.

   Senator Boswell wants detailed statistics about women who have abortions made
public but denies he wants to name and shame individuals.

   Senator Knowles said politicians ought to butt out of a debate which was
between women and their doctors.

   "If Senator Boswell and some of the others are so interested in health
issues, then it would be fascinating if they were to actually focus on prostate
problems and some of the other issues that affect men," she said.

   Her sentiments were echoed by parliamentary secretary Sharman Stone, who said
she saw no reason for women's reproductive health to be debated again. "This set
of questions will raise great anxiety amongst the health service professionals
and a significant proportion of the population that remembers the bad old days
when young poor women were driven to backyard abortionists," Dr Stone said.

   Prime Minister John Howard, who hosed down the debate when it flared after
the October Federal election, said people had a right to express a view on
terminations but he reiterated that the Government had no plans to change the
law.

   "You can't have a situation where every time somebody dares to express a view
they're jumped upon from a great height and it's said the issue is back on the
agenda," Mr Howard said on ABC radio.

   "People will go on talking about this issue for a long time in the future."

   Senator Boswell, who has put 16 questions on notice to Health Minister Tony
Abbott, said he did not intend to name or blame any women who had abortions but
simply wanted a debate based on accurate information.

   He was pro-life but had no immediate plan to introduce a private member's
Bill on the issue.

   However, he said that there was strong concern in the community about
late-term abortions.

   He had made his request before meeting the religious leaders, and had not
discussed the request with Mr Abbott, a fellow pro-lifer who has also pushed for
debate on abortion.

   The group of 12 religious leaders resolved in a Sydney meeting on Monday
night to raise the abortion issue high on the political agenda.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

                              182 of 182 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516  words

HEADLINE: Fax won't get in way of a good story

BYLINE: GARY ADSHEAD

BODY:

   Businessman Rod Norwood certainly knew how to make the Australian Labor Party
realise its security had been severely breached - he told Inside Cover.

   In the past Mr Norwood had left messages at the ALP's Perth office warning
the party he was receiving confidential misdirected faxes.

   Some featured personal background details of possible political candidates
and were meant for the eyes of people at Labor headquarters only.

   "No one ever responded to me," Mr Norwood said.

   "I've left messages, but never heard back."

   All that changed yesterday when IC made a few calls about a new misdirected
fax with some interesting facts.

   An advertising man, Mr Norwood understands the need for client
confidentiality and was shocked on Monday evening to receive faxes featuring the
names, telephone numbers and credit card details of individuals, businesses and
corporations who had paid $150 for an informal Labor Party briefing.

   The money was going to the election campaign of Environment Minister Judy
Edwards and the fundraiser involved a sit-down lunch at law firm Phillips Fox
with Federal Labor frontbencher Stephen Smith. It was organised by the Friends
of Dr Judy Edwards and occurred in the lead-up to the re-election of Kim Beazley
as Federal Labor leader.

   "This is very dangerous for these campaign donors," Mr Norwood said. "These
details could have been sent to anyone and their credit card information abused.
"

   But IC isn't just anyone and Mr Norwood was clever enough to know the column
would only use the information in the public interest.

   Mind you, there was the briefest of consideration given to the notion of
keeping it quiet and booking that dream five-star holiday in St Tropez.

   If you doubt IC's ability to have got away with it, check out the corporate
names on the faxes.

   "Alinta, BHP Billiton, Woodside, Hawker Britton, Bemax Cable Sands,
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association, Santos and Roberts
Thorn Consulting," all paid $150 or more into Dr Edwards' election campaign
fund.

   Included in the credit card details were the names of former Labor government
MPs John Halden and Megan Anwyl, who now work in the business of public
relations and political lobbying.

   The memo attached was for the attention of "Carolyn" in the "ALP office" and
came from Sandy Bird at the Minister's campaign office.

   "Here are all the credit card forms for Judy's function to be processed," Ms
Bird wrote.

   Somehow the ALP's fax and phone numbers were combined by the Minister's
assistant or a pre-programmed fax number is wrong. Either way, the number
entered belongs to Mr Norwood.

   "Dr Edwards regrets this administrative error and is contacting all parties
that have been affected," a spokeswoman for the Minister said.

   One of those parties said his organisation also attended similar functions
with the Liberals and Nationals and paying $150 shouldn't be seen as supporting
only one side of politics.

   Everyone on the list can rest assured IC has destroyed their credit card
details without purchasing so much as a packet of biscuits and Mr Norwood has
been assured the misdirected faxes will stop.

GRAPHIC: Sorry, wrong number: The cover page to the pledges made to Labor
Minister Judy Edwards, right (2 photographs).

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005
